A NEW HOPE

A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far, away...

A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main title. War drums echo through the heavens as a rollup slowly crawls into infinity.

It is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, striking from a hidden base, have won their first victory against the evil Galactic Empire.

During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the Death Star, an armored space station with enough power to destroy an entire planet.

Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess Leia races home aboard her starship, custodian of the stolen plans that can save her people and restore freedom to the galaxy...

The awesome yellow planet of Tatooine emerges from a total eclipse, her two moons glowing against the darkness. A tiny silver spacecraft, a Rebel Blockade Runner firing lasers from the back of the ship, races through space. It is pursed by a giant Imperial Stardestroyer. Hundreds of deadly laserbolts streak from the Imperial Stardestroyer, causing the main solar fin of the Rebel craft to disintegrate.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN PASSAGEWAY

An explosion rocks the ship as two robots, Artoo-Detoo (R2 D2) and See-Threepio (C-3PO) struggle to make their way through the shaking, bouncing passageway. Both robots are old and battered. Artoo is a short, claw-armed tripod. His face is a mass of computer lights surrounding a radar eye. Threepio, on the other hand, is a tall, slender robot of human proportions. He has a gleaming bronze-like metallic surface of an Art Deco design.

Another blast shakes them as they struggle along their way.

THREEPIO: Did you hear that? They've shut down the main reactor. We'll be destroyed for sure. This is madness!

Rebel troopers rush past the robots and take up positions in the main passageway. They aim their weapons toward the door.

THREEPIO: We're doomed!

The little R2 unit makes a series of electronic sounds that only another robot could understand.

THREEPIO: There'll be no escape for the Princess this time.

Artoo continues making beeping sounds. Tension mounts as loud metallic latches clank and the scream of heavy equipment are heard moving around the outside hull of the ship.

THREEPIO: What's that?

EXT. SPACECRAFT IN SPACE

The Imperial craft has easily overtaken the Rebel Blockade Runner. The smaller Rebel ship is being drawn into the underside dock of the giant Imperial starship.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

The nervous Rebel troopers aim their weapons. Suddenly a tremendous blast opens up a hole in the main passageway and a score of fearsome armored spacesuited stormtroopers make their way into the smoke-filled corridor.

In a few minutes the entire passageway is ablaze with laserfire. The deadly bolts ricochet in wild random patterns creating huge explosions. Stormtroopers scatter and duck behind storage lockers. Laserbolts hit several Rebel soldiers who scream and stagger through the smoke, holding shattered arms and faces.

An explosion hits near the robots.

THREEPIO: I should have known better than to trust the logic of a half-sized thermocapsulary dehousing assister...

Artoo counters with an angry rebuttal as the battle rages around the two hapless robots.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT WASTELAND - DAY

A death-white wasteland stretches from horizon to horizon. The tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settle on a lone figure, Luke Skywalker, a farm boy with heroic aspirations who looks much younger than his eighteen years. His shaggy hair and baggy tunic give him the air of a simple but lovable lad with a prize-winning smile.

A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves on a large battered moisture vaporator which sticks out of the desert floor much like an oil pipe with valves. He is aided by a beatup tread-robot with six claw arms. The little robot appears to be barely functioning and moves with jerky motions. A bright sparkle in the morning sky catches Luke's eye and he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt. He stands transfixed for a few moments studying the heavens, then dashed toward his dented, crudely repaired Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few feet above the ground on a magnetic-field). He motions for the tiny robot to follow him.

LUKE: Hurry up! Come with me! What are you waiting for?! Get in gear!

The robot scoots around in a tight circle, stops short, and smoke begins to pour out of every joint. Luke throws his arms up in disgust. Exasperated, the young farm boy jumps into his Landspeeder leaving the smoldering robot to hum madly.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN HALLWAY

The awesome, seven-foot-tall Dark Lord of the Sith makes his way into the blinding light of the main passageway. This is Darth Vader, right hand of the Emperor. His face is obscured by his flowing black robes and grotesque breath mask, which stands out next to the fascist white armored suits of the Imperial stormtroopers. Everyone instinctively backs away from the imposing warrior and a deathly quiet sweeps through the Rebel troops. Several of the Rebel troops break and run in a frenzied panic.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

A woman's hand puts a card into an opening in Artoo's dome. Artoo makes beeping sounds.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

Threepio stands in a hallway, somewhat bewildered. Artoo is nowhere in sight. The pitiful screams of the doomed Rebel soldiers can be heard in the distance.

THREEPIO: Artoo! Artoo-Detoo, where are you?

A familiar clanking sound attacks Threepio's attention and he spots little Artoo at the end of the hallway in a smoke filled alcove. A beautiful young girl (about sixteen years old) stands in front of Artoo. Surreal and out of place, dreamlike and half hidden in the smoke, she finishes adjusting something on Artoo's computer face, then watches as the little robot joins his companion.

THREEPIO: At last! Where have you been?

Stormtroopers can be heard battling in the distance.

THREEPIO: They're heading in this direction. What are we going to do? We'll be sent to the spice mine of Kessel or smashed into who knows what!

Artoo scoots past his bronze friend and races down the subhallway. Threepio chases after him.

THREEPIO: Wait a minute, where are you going?

Artoo responds with electronic beeps.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - CORRIDOR

The evil Darth Vader stands amid the broken and twisted bodies of his foes. He grabs a wounded Rebel Officer by the neck as an Imperial Officer rushes up to the Dark Lord.

IMPERIAL OFFICER: The Death Star plans are not in the main computer.

Vader squeezes the neck of the Rebel Officer, who struggles in vain.

VADER: Where are those transmissions you intercepted?

Vader lifts the Rebel off his feet by his throat.

VADER: What have you done with those plans?

REBEL OFFICER: We intercepted no transmissions. Aaah... This is a consular ship. Were on a diplomatic mission.

VADER: If this is a consular ship... were is the Ambassador?

The Rebel refuses to speak but eventually cries out as the Dark Lord begins to squeeze the officer's throat, creating a gruesome snapping and choking, until the soldier goes limp. Vader tosses the dead soldier against the wall and turns to his troops.

VADER: Commander, tear this ship apart until you've found those plans and bring me the Ambassador. I want her alive!

The stormtroopers scurry into the subhallways.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - SUBHALLWAY

The lovely young girl huddles in a small alcove as the stormtroopers search through the ship. She is Princess Leia Organa, a member of the Alderaan Senate. The fear in her eyes slowly gives way to anger as the muted crushing sounds of the approaching stormtroopers grow louder. One of the troopers spots her.

TROOPER: There she is! Set for stun!

Leia steps from her hiding place and blasts a trooper with her laser pistol. She starts to run but is felled by a paralyzing ray. The troopers inspect her inert body.

TROOPER: She'll be all right. Inform Lord Vader we have a prisoner.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - SUBHALLWAY

Artoo stops before the small hatch of an emergency lifepod. He snaps the seal on the main latch and a red warning light begins to flash. The stubby astro-robot works his way into the cramped four-man pod.

THREEPIO: Hey, you're not permitted in there. It's restricted. You'll be deactivated for sure..

Artoo beeps something to him.

THREEPIO: Don't call me a mindless philosopher, you overweight glob of grease! Now come out before somebody sees you.

Artoo whistles something at his reluctant friend regarding the mission he is about to perform.

THREEPIO: Secret mission? What plans? What are you talking about? I'm not getting in there!

Artoo isn't happy with Threepio's stubbornness, and he beeps and twangs angrily.

A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and debris through the narrow subhallway. Flames lick at Threepio and, after a flurry of electronic swearing from Artoo, the lanky robot jumps into the lifepod.

THREEPIO: I'm going to regret this.

INT. IMPERIAL STARDESTROYER

On the main viewscreen, the lifepod carrying the two terrified robots speeds away from the stricken Rebel spacecraft.

CHIEF PILOT: There goes another one.

CAPTAIN: Hold your fire. There are no life forms. It must have been short circuited.

INT. LIFEPOD

Artoo and Threepio look out at the receding Imperial starship. Stars circle as the pod rotates through the galaxy.

THREEPIO: That's funny, the damage doesn't look as bad from out here.

Artoo beeps an assuring response.

THREEPIO: Are you sure this things safe?

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

Heat waves radiate from the dozen or so bleached white buildings. Luke pilots his Landspeeder through the dusty empty street of the tiny settlement. An old woman runs to get out of the way of the speeding vehicle, shaking her fist at Luke as he flies past.

WOMAN: I've told you kids to slow down!

INT. POWER STATION - DAY

Luke bursts into the power station, waking The Fixer, a rugged mechanic and Camie, a sexy, disheveled girl who has been asleep in his lap. They grumbled as he races through the office, yelling wildly.

FIXER: Did I hear a young noise blast through here?

CAMIE: It was just wormie on another rampage.

Luke bounces into a small room behind the office where Deak and Windy, two tough boys about the same age as Luke, are playing a computer pool-like game with Biggs, a burly, handsome boy a few years older than the rest. His flashy city attire is a sharp contrast to the loose-fitting tunics of the farm boys. A robot repairs some equipment in the background.

LUKE: Shape it up you guys!... Biggs?

Luke's surprise at the appearance of Biggs gives way to great joy and emotion. They give each other a great bear hug.

LUKE: I didn't know you were back! When did you get in?

BIGGS: Just now. I wanted to surprise you, hot shot. I thought you'd be here... certainly didn't expect you to be out working.: (he laughs)

LUKE: The Academy didn't change you much...but you're back so soon? Hey, what happened, didn't you get your commission?

Biggs has an air of cool that seems slightly phony.

BIGGS: Of course I got it. Signed aboard The Rand Ecliptic last week. First mate Biggs Darklighter at your service...: (he salutes): ...I just came to say good-bye to all you unfortunate landlocked simpletons.

Everyone laughs. The dazzling spectacle of his dashing friend is almost too much for Luke, but suddenly he snaps out of it.

LUKE: I almost forgot. There's a battle going on! Right here in our system. Come and look!

DEAK: Not again! Forget it.

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD - SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

The group stumbles out into the stifling desert sun. Camie and The Fixer complain and are forced to shade their eyes. Luke has his binoculars out scanning the heavens.

LUKE: There they are!

Biggs takes the binoculars from Luke as the others strain to see something with the naked eye. Through the binoculars Biggs sees two small silver specks.

BIGGS: That's no battle, hot shot... they're just sitting there! Probably a freighter-tanker refueling.

LUKE: But there was a lot of firing earlier...

Camie grabs the binoculars away banging them against the building in the process. Luke grabs them.

LUKE: Hey, easy with those...

CAMIE: Don't worry about it, Wormie.

The Fixer gives Luke a hard look and the young farm boy shrugs his shoulders in resignation.

FIXER: I keep telling you, the Rebellion is a long way from here. I doubt if the Empire would even fight to keep this system. Believe me Luke, this planet is a big hunk of nothing...

Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why. The group stumbles back into the power station, grumbling about Luke's ineptitude.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - HALLWAY

Princess Leia is led down a low-ceilinged hallway by a squad of armored stormtroopers. Her hands are bound and she is brutally shoved when she is unable to keep up with the briskly marching troops. They stop in a smoky hallway as Darth Vader emerges from the shadows. The sinister Dark Lord stares hard at the frail young senator, but she doesn't move.

LEIA: Lord Vader, I should have known. Only you could be so bold. The Imperial Senate will not sit for this, when they hear you've attacked a diplomatic...

VADER: Don't play games with me, Your Highness. You weren't on any mercy mission this time. You passed directly through a restricted system. Several transmissions were beamed to this ship by Rebel spies. I want to know what happened to the plans they sent you.

LEIA: I don't know what you're talking about. I'm a member of the Imperial Senate on a diplomatic mission to Alderaan...

VADER: You're a part of the Rebel Alliance... and a traitor. Take her away!

Leia is marched away down the hallway and into the smoldering hole blasted in the side of the ship. An Imperial Commander turns to Vader.

COMMANDER: Holding her is dangerous. If word of this gets out, it could generate sympathy for the Rebellion in the senate.

VADER: I have traced the Rebel spies to her. Now she is my only link to find their secret base!

COMMANDER: She'll die before she tells you anything.

VADER: Leave that to me. Send a distress signal and then inform the senate that all aboard were killed!

Another Imperial Officer approaches Vader and the Commander. They stop and snap to attention.

SECOND OFFICER: Lord Vader, the battle station plans are not aboard this ship! And no transmissions were made. An escape pod was jettisoned during the fighting, but no life forms were aboard.

Vader turns to the Commander.

VADER: She must have hidden the plans in the escape pod. Send a detachment down to retrieve them. See to it personally, Commander. There'll be no one to stop us this time.

COMMANDER: Yes, sir.

EXT. SPACE

The Imperial Stardestroyer comes over the surface of the planet Tatooine.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT

Jundland, or "No Man's Land", where the rugged desert mesas meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-droids kick up clouds of sand as they leave the lifepod and clumsily work their way across the desert wasteland. The lifepod in the distance rests half buried in the sand.

THREEPIO: How did I get into this mess? I really don't know how. We seem to be made to suffer. It's our lot in life.

Artoo answers with beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: I've got to rest before I fall apart. My joints are almost frozen.

Artoo continues to respond with beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: What a desolate place this is.

Suddenly Artoo whistles, makes a sharp right turn and starts off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio stops and yells at him.

THREEPIO: Where are you going?

A stream of electronic noises pours forth from the small robot.

THREEPIO: Well, I'm not going that way. It's much too rocky. This way is much easier.

Artoo counters with a long whistle.

THREEPIO: What makes you think there are settlements over there?

Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: Don't get technical with me.

Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: What mission? What are you talking about? I've had just about enough of you! Go that way! You'll be malfunctioning within a day, you nearsighted scrap pile!

Threepio gives the little robot a kick and starts off in the direction of the vast dune sea.

THREEPIO: And don't let me catch you following me begging for help, because you won't get it.

Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges off in the direction of the towering mesas.

THREEPIO: No more adventures. I'm not going that way.

Artoo beeps to himself as he makes his way toward the distant mountains.

EXT. TATOOINE - DUNE SEA

Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a dune; only to find more dunes, which seem to go on for endless miles. He looks back in the direction of the now distant rock mesas.

THREEPIO: That malfunctioning little twerp. This is all his fault! He tricked me into going this way, but he'll do no better.

In a huff of anger and frustration, Threepio knocks the sand from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint of reflected light in the distance reveals an object moving towards him.

THREEPIO: Wait, what's that? A transport! I'm saved!

The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the approaching transport.

THREEPIO: Over here! Help! Please, help!

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

Luke and Biggs are walking and drinking a malt brew. Fixer and the others can be heard working inside.

LUKE: (Very animated): ...so I cut off my power, shut down the afterburners and came in low on Deak's trail. I was so close I thought I was going to fry my instruments. As it was I busted up the Skyhopper pretty bad. Uncle Owen was pretty upset. He grounded me for the rest of the season. You should have been there... it was fantastic.

BIGGS: You ought to take it easy Luke. You may be the hottest bushpilot this side of Mos Eisley, but those little Skyhoppers are dangerous. Keep it up, and one day, whammo, you're going to be nothing more than a dark spot on the down side of a canyon wall.

LUKE: Look who's talking. Now that you've been around those giant starships you're beginning to sound like my uncle. You've gotten soft in the city...

BIGGS: I've missed you kid.

LUKE: Well, things haven't been the same since you left, Biggs. It's been so... quiet.

Biggs looks around then leans close to Luke.

BIGGS: Luke, I didn't come back just to say good-bye... I shouldn't tell you this, but you're the only one I can trust... and if I don't come back, I want somebody to know.

Luke's eyes are wide with Biggs' seriousness and loyalty.

LUKE: What are you talking about?

BIGGS: I made some friends at the Academy.: (he whispers): ...when our frigate goes to one of the central systems, we're going to jump ship and join the Alliance...

Luke, amazed and stunned, is almost speechless.

LUKE: Join the Rebellion?! Are you kidding! How?

BIGGS: Quiet down will ya! You got a mouth bigger than a meteor crater!

LUKE: I'm sorry. I'm quiet.: (he whispers): Listen how quiet I am. You can barely hear me...

Biggs shakes his head angrily and then continues.

BIGGS: My friend has a friend on Bestine who might help us make contact.

LUKE: You're crazy! You could wander around forever trying to find them.

BIGGS: I know it's a long shot, but if I don't find them I'll do what I can on my own... It's what we always talked about. Luke, I'm not going to wait for the Empire to draft me into service. The Rebellion is spreading and I want to be on the right side -- the side I believe in.

LUKE: And I'm stuck here...

BIGGS: I thought you were going to the Academy next term. You'll get your chance to get off this rock.

LUKE: Not likely! I had to cancel my application. There has been a lot of unrest among the Sandpeople since you left... they've even raided the outskirts of Anchorhead.

BIGGS: Your uncle could hold off a whole colony of Sandpeople with one blaster.

LUKE: I know, but he's got enough vaporators going to make the place pay off. He needs me for just one more season. I can't leave him now.

BIGGS: I feel for you, Luke, you're going to have to learn what seems to be important or what really is important. What good is all your uncle's work if it's taken over by the Empire?... You know they're starting to nationalize commerce in the central systems... it won't be long before your uncle is merely a tenant, slaving for the greater glory of the Empire.

LUKE: It couldn't happen here. You said it yourself. The Empire won't bother with this rock.

BIGGS: Things always change.

LUKE: I wish I was going... Are you going to be around long?

BIGGS: No, I'm leaving in the morning...

LUKE: Then I guess I won't see you.

BIGGS: Maybe someday... I'll keep a lookout.

LUKE: Well, I'll be at the Academy next season... after that who knows. I won't be drafted into the Imperial Starfleet that's for sure... Take care of yourself, you'll always be the best friend I've got.

BIGGS: So long, Luke.

Biggs turns away from his old friend and heads towards the power station.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SUNSET

The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange foreboding mist and the onimous sounds of unearthly creatures fill the air. Artoo moves cautiously through the creepy rock canyon, inadvertently making a loud clicking noise as he goes. He hears a distant, hard, metallic sound and stops for a moment. Convinced he is alone, he continues on his way.

In the distance, a pebble tumbles down the steep canyon wall and a small dark figure darts into the shadows. A little further up the canyon a slight flicker of light reveals a pair of eyes in the dark recesses only a few feet from the narrow path.

The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail until suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray shoots out of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow. He manages one short electronic squeak before he topples over onto his back. His bright computer lights flicker off, then on, then off again. Out of the rocks scurry three Jawas, no taller than Artoo. They holster strange and complex weapons as they cautiously approach the robot. They wear grubby cloaks and their faces are shrouded so only their glowing eyes can be seen. They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave the heavy robot onto their shoulders and carry him off down the trail.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET

The eight Jawas carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge tank like vehicle the size of a four-story house. They weld a small disk on the side of Artoo and then put him under a large tube on the side of the vehicle and the little robot is sucked into the giant machine.

The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small ladders and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport.

INT. SANDCRAWLER - HOLD AREA

It is dim inside the hold area of the Sandcrawler. Artoo switches on a small floodlight on his forehead and stumbles around the scrap heap. The narrow beam swings across rusty metal rocket parts and an array of grotesquely twisted and maimed astro-robots. He lets out a pathetic electronic whimper and stumbles off toward what appears to be a door at the end of the chamber.

INT. SANDCRAWLER - PRISON AREA

Artoo enters a wide room with a four-foot ceiling. In the middle of the scrap heap sit a dozen or so robots of various shapes and sizes. Some are engaged in electronic conversation, while others simply mill about. A voice of recognition calls out from the gloom.

THREEPIO: Artoo-Detoo! It's you! It's you!

A battered Threepio scrambles up to Artoo and embraces him.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET

The enormous Sandcrawler lumbers off toward the magnificent twin suns, which are slowly setting over a distant mountain ridge.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - DAY

Four Imperial stormtroopers mill about in front of the half buried lifepod that brought Artoo and Threepio to Tatooine. A trooper yells to an officer some distance away.

FIRST TROOPER: Someone was in the pod. The tracks go off in this direction.

A second trooper picks a small bit of metal out of the sand and gives it to the first trooper.

SECOND TROOPER: Look, sir -- droids.

EXT. TATOOINE - DUNES

The Sandcrawler moves slowly down a great sand dune.

INT. SANDCRAWLER

Threepio and Artoo noisily bounce along inside the cramped prison chamber. Artoo appears to be shut off.

THREEPIO: Wake up! Wake up!

Suddenly the shaking and bouncing of the Sandcrawler stops, creating quite a commotion among the mechanical men. Threepio's fist bangs the head of Artoo whose computer lights pop on as he begins beeping. At the far end of the long chamber a hatch opens, filling the chamber with blinding white light. a dozen or so Jawas make their way through the odd assortment of robots.

THREEPIO: We're doomed.

A Jawa starts moving toward them.

THREEPIO: Do you think they'll melt us down?

Artoo responds, making beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: Don't shoot! Don't shoot! Will this never end?

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - LARS HOMESTEAD - AFTERNOON

The Jawas mutter gibberish as they busily line up their battered captives, including Artoo and Threepio, in front of the enormous Sandcrawler, which is parked beside a small homestead consisting of three large holes in the ground surrounded by several tall moisture vaporators and one small adobe block house.

The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots, straightening them up or brushing some dust from a dented metallic elbow. The shrouded little creatures smell horribly, attracting small insects to the dark areas when their mouths and nostrils should be.

Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps Owen Lars, a large burly man in his mid-fifties. His reddish eyes are sunken in a dust-covered face. As the farmer carefully inspects each robot, he is closely followed by his slump- shouldered nephew, Luke Skywalker. One of the vile little Jawas walks ahead of the farmer spouting an animated sales pitch in a queer, unintelligible language.

A voice calls out from one of the huge holes that form the homestead. Luke goes over to the edge and sees his Aunt Beru standing in the main courtyard.

BERU: Luke, tell Owen that if he gets a translator to be sure it speaks Bocce.

LUKE: It looks like we don't have much of a choice but I'll remind him.

Luke returns to his uncle as they look over the equipment for sale with the Jawa leader.

OWEN: I have no need for a protocol droid.

THREEPIO: (quickly): Sir -- not in an environment such as this -- that's why I've also been programmed for over thirty secondary functions that...

OWEN: What I really need is a droid that understands the binary language of moisture vaporators.

THREEPIO: Vaporators! Sir -- My first job was programming binary load lifter... very similar to your vaporators. You could say...

OWEN: Do you speak Bocce?

THREEPIO: Of course I can, sir. It's like a second language for me... I'm as fluent in Bocce...

OWEN: All right shut up!: (turning to Jawa): I'll take this one.

THREEPIO: Shutting up, sir.

OWEN: Luke, take these two over to the garage, will you? I want you to have both of them cleaned up before dinner.

LUKE: But I was going into Toshi Station to pick up some power converters...

OWEN: You can waste time with your friends when your chores are done. Now come on, get to it!

LUKE: All right, come on! And the red one, come on. Well, come on, Red, let's go.

As the Jawas start to lead the three remaining robots back into the Sandcrawler, Artoo lets out a pathetic little beep and starts after his old friend Threepio. He is restrained by a slimy Jawa, who zaps him with a control box.

Owen is negotiating with the head Jawa. Luke and the two robots start off for the garage when a plate pops off the head of the red astro-droid's head plate and it sparks wildly.

LUKE: Uncle Owen...

OWEN: Yeah?

LUKE: This R2 unit has a bad motivator. Look!

OWEN: (to the head Jawa): Hey, what're you trying to push on us?

The Jawa goes into a loud spiel. Meanwhile, Artoo has sneaked out of line and is moving up and down trying to attract attention. He lets out with a low whistle. Threepio taps Luke on the shoulder.

THREEPIO: (pointing to Artoo): Excuse me, sir, but that R2 unit is in prime condition. A real bargain.

LUKE: Uncle Owen...

OWEN: Yeah?

LUKE: What about that one?

OWEN: (to Jawa): What about that blue one? We'll take that one.

With a little reluctance the scruffy dwarf trades the damaged astro-droid for Artoo.

LUKE: Yeah, take it away.

THREEPIO: Uh, I'm quite sure you'll be very pleased with that one, sir. He really is in first-class condition. I've worked with him before. Here he comes.

Owen pays off the whining Jawa as Luke and the two robots trudge off toward a grimy homestead entry.

LUKE: Okay, let's go.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo): Now, don't you forget this! Why I should stick my neck out for you is quite beyond my capacity!

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - GARAGE AREA - LATE AFTERNOON

The garage is cluttered and worn, but a friendly peaceful atmosphere permeates the low grey chamber. Threepio lowers himself into a large tub filled with warm oil. Near the battered Landspeeder little Artoo rests on a large battery with a cord to his face.

THREEPIO: Thank the maker! This oil bath is going to feel so good. I've got such a bad case of dust contamination, I can barely move!

Artoo beeps a muffled reply. Luke seems to be lost in thought as he runs his hand over the damaged fin of a small two-man Skyhopper spaceship resting in a low hangar off the garage. Finally Luke's frustrations get the better of him and he slams a wrench across the workbench.

LUKE: It just isn't fair. Oh, Biggs is right. I'm never gonna get out of here!

THREEPIO: Is there anything I might do to help?

Luke glances at the battered robot. A bit of his anger drains and a tiny smile creeps across his face.

LUKE: Well, not unless you can alter time, speed up the harvest, or teleport me off this rock!

THREEPIO: I don't think so, sir. I'm only a droid and not very knowledgeable about such things. Not on this planet, anyways. As a matter of fact, I'm not even sure which planet I'm on.

LUKE: Well, if there's a bright center to the universe, you're on the planet that it's farthest from.

THREEPIO: I see, sir.

LUKE: Uh, you can call me Luke.

THREEPIO: I see, sir Luke.

LUKE: (laughing): Just Luke.

THREEPIO: And I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations, and this is my counterpart, Artoo-Detoo.

LUKE: Hello.

Artoo beeps in response. Luke unplugs Artoo and begins to scrape several connectors on the robot's head with a chrome pick. Threepio climbs out of the oil tub and begins wiping oil from his bronze body.

LUKE: You got a lot of carbon scoring here. It looks like you boys have seen a lot of action.

THREEPIO: With all we've been through, sometimes I'm amazed we're in as good condition as we are, what with the Rebellion and all.

LUKE: You know of the Rebellion against the Empire?

THREEPIO: That's how we came to be in your service, if you take my meaning, sir.

LUKE: Have you been in many battles?

THREEPIO: Several, I think. Actually, there's not much to tell. I'm not much more than an interpreter, and not very good at telling stories. Well, not at making them interesting, anyways.

Luke struggles to remove a small metal fragment from Artoo's neck joint. He uses a larger pick.

LUKE: Well, my little friend, you've got something jammed in here real good. Were you on a cruiser or...

The fragment breaks loose with a snap, sending Luke tumbling head over heels. He sits up and sees a twelve-inch three dimensional hologram of Leia Organa, the Rebel senator, being projected from the face of little Artoo. The image is a rainbow of colors as it flickers and jiggles in the dimly lit garage. Luke's mouth hangs open in awe.

LEIA: Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope.

LUKE: What's this?

Artoo looks around and sheepishly beeps an answer for Threepio to translate. Leia continues to repeat the sentence fragment over and over.

THREEPIO: What is what?!? He asked you a question...: (pointing to Leia): What is that?

Artoo whistles his surprise as he pretends to just notice the hologram. He looks around and sheepishly beeps an answer for Threepio to translate. Leia continues to repeat the sentence fragment over and over.

LEIA: Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope. Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope.

THREEPIO: Oh, he says it's nothing, sir. Merely a malfunction. Old data. Pay it no mind.

Luke becomes intrigued by the beautiful girl.

LUKE: Who is she? She's beautiful.

THREEPIO: I'm afraid I'm not quite sure, sir.

LEIA: Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi...

THREEPIO: I think she was a passenger on our last voyage. A person of some importance, sir -- I believe. Our captain was attached to...

LUKE: Is there more to this recording?

Luke reaches out for Artoo but he lets out several frantic squeaks and a whistle.

THREEPIO: Behave yourself, Artoo. You're going to get us in trouble. It's all right, you can trust him. He's our new master.

Artoo whistles and beeps a long message to Threepio.

THREEPIO: He says he's the property of Obi-Wan Kenobi, a resident of these parts. And it's a private message for him. Quite frankly, sir I don't know what he's talking about. Our last master was Captain Antilles, but with what we've been through, this little R2 unit has become a bit eccentric.

LUKE: Obi-Wan Kenobi? I wonder if he means old Ben Kenobi?

THREEPIO: I beg your pardon, sir, but do you know what he's talking about?

LUKE: Well, I don't know anyone named Obi Wan, but old Ben lives out beyond the dune sea. He's kind of a strange old hermit.

Luke's gazes at the beautiful young princess for a few moments.

LUKE: I wonder who she is. It sounds like she's in trouble. I'd better play back the whole thing.

Artoo beeps something to Threepio.

THREEPIO: He says the restraining bolt has short circuited his recording system. He suggests that if you remove the bolt, he might be able to play back the entire recording.

Luke looks longingly at the lovely, little princess and hasn't really heard what Threepio has been saying.

LUKE: H'm? Oh, yeah, well, I guess you're too small to run away on me if I take this off! Okay.

Luke takes a wedged bar and pops the restraining bolt off Artoo's side.

LUKE: There you go.

The princess immediately disappears...

LUKE: Well, wait a minute. Where'd she go? Bring her back! Play back the entire message.

Artoo beeps an innocent reply as Threepio sits up in embarrassment.

THREEPIO: What message? The one you're carrying inside your rusty innards!

A women's voice calls out from another room.

AUNT BERU: Luke? Luke! Come to dinner!

Luke stands up and shakes his head at the malfunctioning robot.

LUKE: All right, I'll be right there, Aunt Beru.

THREEPIO: I'm sorry, sir, but he appears to have picked up a slight flutter.

Luke tosses Artoo's restraining bolt on the workbench and hurries out of the room.

LUKE: Well, see what you can do with him. I'll be right back.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo): Just you reconsider playing that message for him.

Artoo beeps in response.

THREEPIO: No, I don't think he likes you at all.

Artoo beeps.

THREEPIO: No, I don't like you either.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - DINING AREA

Luke's Aunt Beru, a warm, motherly woman, fills a pitcher with blue fluid from a refrigerated container in the well used kitchen. She puts the pitcher on a tray with some bowls of food and starts for the dining area.

Luke sits with his Uncle Owen before a table covered with steaming bowls of food as Aunt Beru carries in a bowl of red grain.

LUKE: You know, I think that R2 unit we bought might have been stolen.

OWEN: What makes you think that?

LUKE: Well, I stumbled across a recording while I was cleaning him. He says he belongs to someone called Obi-Wan Kenobi.

Owen is greatly alarmed at the mention of his name, but manages to control himself.

LUKE: I thought he might have meant old Ben. Do you know what he's talking about? Well, I wonder if he's related to Ben.

Owen breaks loose with a fit of uncontrolled anger.

OWEN: That old man's just a crazy old wizard. Tomorrow I want you to take that R2 unit into Anchorhead and have its memory flushed. That'll be the end of it. It belongs to us now.

LUKE: But what if this Obi-Wan comes looking for him?

OWEN: He won't, I don't think he exists any more. He died about the same time as your father.

LUKE: He knew my father?

OWEN: I told you to forget it. Your only concern is to prepare the new droids for tomorrow. In the morning I want them on the south ridge working out those condensers.

LUKE: Yes, sir. I think those new droids are going to work out fine. In fact, I, uh, was also thinking about our agreement about my staying on another season. And if these new droids do work out, I want to transmit my application to the Academy this year.

Owen's face becomes a scowl, although he tries to suppress it.

OWEN: You mean the next semester before harvest?

LUKE: Sure, there're more than enough droids.

OWEN: Harvest is when I need you the most. Only one more season. This year we'll make enough on the harvest so I'll be able to hire some more hands. And then you can go to the Academy next year.

Luke continues to toy with his food, not looking at his uncle.

OWEN: You must understand I need you here, Luke.

LUKE: But it's a whole 'nother year.

OWEN: Look, it's only one more season.

Luke pushes his half-eaten plate of food aside and stands.

LUKE: Yeah, that's what you said last year when Biggs and Tank left.

AUNT BERU: Where are you going?

LUKE: It looks like I'm going nowhere. I have to finish cleaning those droids.

Resigned to his fate, Luke paddles out of the room. Owen mechanically finishes his dinner.

AUNT BERU: Owen, he can't stay here forever. Most of his friends have gone. It means so much to him.

OWEN: I'll make it up to him next year. I promise.

AUNT BERU: Luke's just not a farmer, Owen. He has too much of his father in him.

OWEN: That's what I'm afraid of.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

The giant twin suns of Tatooine slowly disappear behind a distant dune range. Luke stands watching them for a few moments, then reluctantly enters the doomed entrance to the homestead.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - GARAGE

Luke enters the garage to discover the robots nowhere in sight. He takes a small control box from his utility belt similar to the one the Jawas were carrying. He activates the box, which creates a low hum, and Threepio, letting out a short yell, pops up from behind the Skyhopper spaceship.

LUKE: What are you doing hiding there?

Threepio stumbles forward, but Artoo is still nowhere in sight.

THREEPIO: It wasn't my fault, sir. Please don't deactivate me. I told him not to go, but he's faulty, malfunctioning; kept babbling on about his mission.

LUKE: Oh, no!

Luke races out of the garage followed by Threepio.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

Luke rushes out of the small doomed entry to the homestead and searches the darkening horizon for the small triped astro robot. Threepio struggles out of the homestead and on the salt flat as Luke scans the landscape with his electrobinoculars.

THREEPIO: That R2 unit has always been a problem. These astro-droids are getting quite out of hand. Even I can't understand their logic at times.

LUKE: How could I be so stupid? He's nowhere in sight. Blast it!

THREEPIO: Pardon me, sir, but couldn't we go after him?

LUKE: It's too dangerous with all the Sandpeople around. We'll have to wait until morning.

Owen yells up from the homestead plaza.

OWEN: Luke, I'm shutting the power down for the night.

LUKE: All right, I'll be there in a few minutes. Boy, am I gonna get it.

He takes one final look across the dim horizon.

LUKE: You know that little droid is going to cause me a lot of trouble.

THREEPIO: Oh, he excels at that, sir.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - PLAZA

Morning slowly creeps into the sparse but sparkling oasis of the open courtyard. The idyll is broken be the yelling of Uncle Owen, his voice echoing throughout the homestead.

OWEN: Luke? Luke? Luke? Where could he be loafing now!

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - KITCHEN

The interior of the kitchen is a worm glow as Aunt Beru prepares the morning breakfast. Owen enters in a huff.

OWEN: Have you seen Luke this morning?

AUNT BERU: He said he had some things to do before he started today, so he left early.

OWEN: Uh? Did he take those two new droids with him?

AUNT BERU: I think so.

OWEN: Well, he'd better have those units in the south range repaired be midday or there'll be hell to pay!

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT WASTELAND - LUKE'S SPEEDER - DAY

The rock and sand of the desert floor are a blur as Threepio pilots the sleek Landspeeder gracefully across the vast wasteland.

INT./EXT. LUKE'S SPEEDER - DESERT WASTELAND - TRAVELING - DAY

Luke leans over the back of the speeder and adjusts something in the motor compartment.

LUKE: (yelling): How's that.

Threepio signals that is fine and Luke turns back into the wind-whipped cockpit and pops the canopy shut.

LUKE: Old Ben Kenobi lives out in this direction somewhere, but I don't see how that R2 unit could have come this far. We must have missed him. Uncle Owen isn't going to take this very well.

THREEPIO: Sir, would it help if you told him it was my fault.

LUKE: (brightening): Sure. He needs you. He'd probably only deactivate you for a day or so...

THREEPIO: Deactivate! Well, on the other hand if you hadn't removed his restraining bolt...

LUKE: Wait, there's something dead ahead on the scanner. It looks like our droid... hit the accelerator.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK MESA - DUNE SEA - COASTLINE - DAY

From high on a rock mesa, the tiny Landspeeder can be seen gliding across the desert floor. Suddenly in the foreground two weather-beaten Sandpeople shrouded in their grimy desert cloaks peer over the edge of the rock mesa. One of the marginally human creatures raises a long ominous laser rifle and points it at the speeder but the second creature grabs the gun before it can be fired.

The Sandpeople, or Tusken Raiders as they're sometimes called, speak in a coarse barbaric language as they get into an animated argument. The second Tusken Raider seems to get in the final word and the nomads scurry over the rocky terrain.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK MESA - CANYON

The Tusken Raider approaches two large Banthas standing tied to a rock. The monstrous, bear-like creatures are as large as elephants, with huge red eyes, tremendous looped horns, and long, furry, dinosaur-like tails. The Tusken Raiders mount saddles strapped to the huge creatures' shaggy backs and ride off down the rugged bluff.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - FLOOR

The speeder is parked on the floor of a massive canyon. Luke, with his long laser rifle slung over his shoulder, stands before little Artoo.

LUKE: Hey, whoa, just where do you think you're going?

The little droid whistles a feeble reply, as Threepio poses menacingly behind the little runaway.

THREEPIO: Master Luke here is your rightful owner. We'll have no more of this Obi-Wan Kenobi jibberish... and don't talk to me about your mission, either. You're fortunate he doesn't blast you into a million pieces right here.

LUKE: Well, come on. It's getting late. I only hope we can get back before Uncle Owen really blows up.

THREEPIO: If you don't mind my saying so, sir, I think you should deactivate the little fugitive until you've gotten him back to your workshop.

LUKE: No, he's not going to try anything.

Suddenly the little robot jumps to life with a mass of frantic whistles and screams.

LUKE: What's wrong with him now?

THREEPIO: Oh my... sir, he says there are several creatures approaching from the southeast.

Luke swings his rifle into position and looks to the south.

LUKE: Sandpeople! Or worst! Come on, let's have a look. Come on.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - RIDGE - DAY

Luke carefully makes his way to the top of a rock ridge and scans the canyon with his electrobinoculars. He spots the two riderless Banthas. Threepio struggles up behind the young adventurer.

LUKE: There are two Banthas down there but I don't see any... wait a second, they're Sandpeople all right. I can see one of them now.

Luke watches the distant Tusken Raider through his electrobinoculars. Suddenly something huge moves in front of his field of view. Before Luke or Threepio can react, a large, gruesome Tusken Raider looms over them. Threepio is startled and backs away, right off the side if the cliff. He can be heard for several moments as he clangs, bangs and rattles down the side of the mountain.

The towering creature brings down his curved, double-pointed gaderffii -- the dreaded axe blade that has struck terror in the heart of the local settlers. But Luke manages to block the blow with his laser rifle, which is smashed to pieces. The terrified farm boy scrambles backward until he is forced to the edge of a deep crevice. The sinister Raider stands over him with his weapon raised and lets out a horrible shrieking laugh.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - FLOOR - DAY

Artoo forces himself into the shadows of a small alcove in the rocks as the vicious Sandpeople walk past carrying the inert Luke Skywalker, who is dropped in a heap before the speeder. The Sandpeople ransack the speeder, throwing parts and supplies in all directions. Suddenly they stop. Then everything is quiet for a few moments. A great howling moan is heard echoing throughout the canyon which sends the Sandpeople fleeing in terror.

Artoo moves even tighter into the shadows as the slight swishing sound that frightened off the Sandpeople grows even closer, until a shabby old desert-rat-of-a-man appears and leans over Luke. His ancient leathery face, cracked and weathered by exotic climates is set off by dark, penetrating eyes and a scraggly white beard. Ben Kenobi squints his eyes as he scrutinizes the unconscious farm boy. Artoo makes a slight sound and Ben turns and looks right at him.

BEN: Hello there! Come here my little friend. Don't be afraid.

Artoo waddles over to were Luke lies crumpled in a heap and begins to whistle and beep his concern. Ben puts his hand on Luke's forehead and he begins to come around.

BEN: Don't worry, he'll be all right.

LUKE: What happened?

BEN: Rest easy, son, you've had a busy day. You're fortunate you're still in one piece.

LUKE: Ben? Ben Kenobi! Boy, am I glad to see you!

BEN: The Jundland wastes are not to be traveled lightly. Tell me young Luke, what brings you out this far?

LUKE: Oh, this little droid! I think he's searching for his former master... I've never seen such devotion in a droid before... there seems to be no stopping him. He claims to be the property of an Obi-Wan Kenobi. Is he a relative of yours? Do you know who he's talking about?

Ben ponders this for a moment, scratching his scruffy beard.

BEN: Obi-Wan Kenobi... Obi-Wan? Now thats a name I haven't heard in a long time... a long time.

LUKE: I think my uncle knew him. He said he was dead.

BEN: Oh, he's not dead, not... not yet.

LUKE: You know him!

BEN: Well of course, of course I know him. He's me! I haven't gone by the name Obi-Wan since oh, before you were born.

LUKE: Then the droid does belong to you.

BEN: Don't seem to remember ever owning a droid. Very interesting...

He suddenly looks up at the overhanging cliffs.

BEN: I think we better get indoors. The Sandpeople are easily startled but they will soon be back and in greater numbers.

Luke sits up and rubs his head. Artoo lets out a pathetic beep causing Luke to remember something. He looks around.

LUKE: Threepio!

EXT. TATOOINE - SAND PIT - ROCK MESA - DAY

Little Artoo stands at the edge of a large sand pit and begins to chatter away in electronic whistles and beeps. Luke and Ben stand over a very dented and tangled Threepio lying half buried in the sand. One of his arms has broken off.

Luke tries to revive the inert robot by shaking him and then flips a hidden switch on his back several times until finally the mechanical man's systems turn on.

THREEPIO: Where am I? I must have taken a bad step...

LUKE: Can you stand? We've got to get out of here before the Sandpeople return.

THREEPIO: I don't think I can make it. You go on, Master Luke. There's no sense in you risking yourself on my account. I'm done for.

Artoo makes a beeping sound.

LUKE: No, you're not. What kind of talk is that?

Luke and Ben help the battered robot to his feet. Little Artoo watches from the top of the pit. Ben glances around suspiciously. Sensing something, he stands up and sniffs the air.

BEN: Quickly, son... they're on the move.

INT. KENOBI'S DWELLING

The small, spartan hovel is cluttered with desert junk but still manages to radiate an air of time-worn comfort and security. Luke is in one corner repairing Threepio's arm, as old Ben sits thinking.

LUKE: No, my father didn't fight in the wars. He was a navigator on a spice freighter.

BEN: That's what your uncle told you. He didn't hold with your father's ideals. Thought he should have stayed here and not gotten involved.

LUKE: You fought in the Clone Wars?

BEN: Yes, I was once a Jedi Knight the same as your father.

LUKE: I wish I'd known him.

BEN: He was the best star-pilot in the galaxy, and a cunning warrior. I understand you've become quite a good pilot yourself. And he was a good friend. Which reminds me...

Ben gets up and goes to a chest where he rummages around. As Luke finishes repairing Threepio and starts to fit the restraining bolt back on, Threepio looks at him nervously. Luke thinks about the bolt for a moment then puts it on the table. Ben shuffles up and presents Luke with a short handle with several electronic gadgets attached to it.

BEN: I have something here for you. Your father wanted you to have this when you were old enough, but your uncle wouldn't allow it. He feared you might follow old Obi-Wan on some damned-fool idealistic crusade like your father did.

THREEPIO: Sir, if you'll not be needing me, I'll close down for awhile.

LUKE: Sure, go ahead.

Ben hands Luke the saber.

LUKE: What is it?

BEN: Your fathers lightsaber. This is the weapon of a Jedi Knight. Not as clumsy or as random as a blaster.

Luke pushes a button on the handle. A long beam shoots out about four feet and flickers there. The light plays across the ceiling.

BEN: An elegant weapon for a more civilized time. For over a thousand generations the Jedi Knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the Old Republic. Before the dark times, before the Empire.

Luke hasn't really been listening.

LUKE: How did my father die?

BEN: A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who was a pupil of mine until he turned to evil, helped the Empire hunt down and destroy the Jedi Knights. He betrayed and murdered your father. Now the Jedi are all but extinct. Vader was seduced by the dark side of the Force.

LUKE: The Force?

BEN: Well, the Force is what gives a Jedi his power. It's an energy field created by all living things. It surrounds us and penetrates us. It binds the galaxy together.

Artoo makes beeping sounds.

BEN: Now, let's see if we can't figure out what you are, my little friend. And where you come from.

LUKE: I saw part of the message he was...

Luke is cut short as the recorded image of the beautiful young Rebel princess is projected from Artoo's face.

BEN: I seem to have found it.

Luke stops his work as the lovely girl's image flickers before his eyes.

LEIA: General Kenobi, years ago you served my father in the Clone Wars. Now he begs you to help him in his struggle against the Empire. I regret that I am unable to present my father's request to you in person, but my ship has fallen under attack and I'm afraid my mission to bring you to Alderaan has failed. I have placed information vital to the survival of the Rebellion into the memory systems of this R2 unit. My father will know how to retrieve it. You must see this droid safely delivered to him on Alderaan. This is our most desperate hour. Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi, you're my only hope.

There is a little static and the transmission is cut short. Old Ben leans back and scratches his head. He silently puffs on a tarnished chrome water pipe. Luke has stars in his eyes.

BEN: You must learn the ways of the Force if you're to come with me to Alderaan.

LUKE: (laughing): Alderaan? I'm not going to Alderaan. I've got to go home. It's late, I'm in for it as it is.

BEN: I need your help, Luke. She needs your help. I'm getting too old for this sort of thing.

LUKE: I can't get involved! I've got work to do! It's not that I like the Empire. I hate it! But there's nothing I can do about it right now. It's such a long way from here.

BEN: That's your uncle talking.

LUKE: (sighing): Oh, God, my uncle. How am I ever going to explain this?

BEN: Learn about the Force, Luke.

LUKE: Look, I can take you as far as Anchorhead. You can get a transport there to Mos Eisley or wherever you're going.

BEN: You must do what you feel is right, of course.

EXT. SPACE.

An Imperial Stardestroyer heads toward the evil planet-like battle station: the Death Star!

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Eight Imperial senators and generals sit around a black conference table. Imperial stormtroopers stand guard around the room. Commander Tagge, a young, slimy-looking general, is speaking.

TAGGE: Until this battle station is fully operational we are vulnerable. The Rebel Alliance is too well equipped. They're more dangerous than you realize.

The bitter Admiral Motti twists nervously in his chair.

MOTTI: Dangerous to your starfleet, Commander, not to this battle station!

TAGGE: The Rebellion will continue to gain a support in the Imperial Senate as long as....

Suddenly all heads turn as Commander Tagge's speech is cut short and the Grand Moff Tarkin, governor of the Imperial outland regions, enters. He is followed by his powerful ally, The Sith Lord, Darth Vader. All of the generals stand and bow before the thin, evil-looking governor as he takes his place at the head of the table. The Dark Lord stands behind him.

TARKIN: The Imperial Senate will no longer be of any concern to us. I've just received word that the Emperor has dissolved the council permanently. The last remnants of the Old Republic have been swept away.

TAGGE: That's impossible! How will the Emperor maintain control without the bureaucracy?

TARKIN: The regional governors now have direct control over territories. Fear will keep the local systems in line. Fear of this battle station.

TAGGE: And what of the Rebellion? If the Rebels have obtained a complete technical readout of this station, it is possible, however unlikely, that they might find a weakness and exploit it.

VADER: The plans you refer to will soon be back in our hands.

MOTTI: Any attack made by the Rebels against this station would be a useless gesture, no matter what technical data they've obtained. This station is now the ultimate power in the universe. I suggest we use it!

VADER: Don't be too proud of this technological terror you've constructed. The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force.

MOTTI: Don't try to frighten us with your sorcerer's ways, Lord Vader. Your sad devotion to that ancient religion has not helped you conjure up the stolen data tapes, or given you clairvoyance enough to find the Rebel's hidden fort...

Suddenly Motti chokes and starts to turn blue under Vader's spell.

VADER: I find your lack of faith disturbing.

TARKIN: Enough of this! Vader, release him!

VADER: As you wish.

TARKIN: This bickering is pointless. Lord Vader will provide us with the location of the Rebel fortress by the time this station is operational. We will then crush the Rebellion with one swift stroke.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

The speeder stops before what remains of the huge Jawas Sandcrawler. Luke and Ben walk among the smoldering rubble and scattered bodies.

LUKE: It looks like Sandpeople did this, all right. Look, here are Gaffi sticks, Bantha tracks. It's just... I never heard of them hitting anything this big before.

Ben is crouching in the sand studying the tracks.

BEN: They didn't. But we are meant to think they did. These tracks are side by side. Sandpeople always ride single file to hide there numbers.

LUKE: These are the same Jawas that sold us Artoo and Threepio.

BEN: And these blast points, too accurate for Sandpeople. Only Imperial stormtroopers are so precise.

LUKE: Why would Imperial troops want to slaughter Jawas?

Luke looks back at the speeder where Artoo and Threepio are inspecting the dead Jawas, and put two and two together.

LUKE: If they traced the robots here, they may have learned who they sold them to. And that would lead them home!

Luke reaches a sudden horrible realization, then races for the speeder and jumps it.

BEN: Wait, Luke! It's too dangerous.

Luke races off leaving Ben and the two robots alone with the burning Sandcrawler.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

Luke races across the wasteland in his battered Landspeeder.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

The speeder roars up to the burning homestead. Luke jumps out and runs to the smoking holes that were once his home. Debris is scattered everywhere and it looks as if a great battle has taken place.

LUKE: Uncle Owen! Aunt Beru! Uncle Owen!

Luke stumbles around in a daze looking for his aunt and uncle. Suddenly he comes upon their smoldering remains. He is stunned, and cannot speak. Hate replaces fear and a new resolve comes over him.

EXT. SPACE

Imperial TIE fighter races toward the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION CORRIDOR

Two stormtroopers open an electronic cell door and allow several Imperial guards to enter. Princess Leia's face is filled with defiance, which slowly gives way to fear as a giant black torture robot enters, followed by Darth Vader.

VADER: And, now Your Highness, we will discuss the location of your hidden Rebel base.

The torture robot gives off a steady beeping sound as it approaches Princess Leia and extends one of its mechanical arms bearing a large hypodermic needle. The door slides shut and the long cell block hallway appears peaceful. The muffled screams of the Rebel princess are barely heard.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

There is a large bonfire of Jawa bodies blazing in front of the Sandcrawler as Ben and the robots finish burning the dead. Luke drives up in the speeder and Ben walks over to him.

BEN: There's nothing you could have done, Luke, had you been there. You'd have been killed, too, and the droids would be in the hands of the Empire.

LUKE: I want to come with you to Alderaan. There's nothing here for me now. I want to learn the ways of the Force and become a Jedi like my father.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

The Landspeeder with Luke, Artoo, Threepio, and Ben in it zooms across the desert. The speeder stops on a bluff overlooking the spaceport at Mos Eisley. It is a haphazard array of low, grey, concrete structures and semi-domes. A harsh gale blows across the stark canyon floor. Luke adjusts his goggles and walks to the edge of the craggy bluff where Ben is standing.

BEN: Mos Eisley Spaceport. You will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villainy. We must be cautious.

Ben looks over at Luke, who gives the old Jedi a determined smile.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

The speeder is stopped on a crowded street by several combat hardend stormtroopers who look over the two robots. A Trooper questions Luke.

TROOPER: How long have you had these droids?

LUKE: About three or four seasons.

BEN: They're for sale if you want them.

TROOPER: Let me see your identification.

Luke becomes very nervous as he fumbles to find his ID while Ben speaks to the Trooper in a very controlled voice.

BEN: You don't need to see his identification.

TROOPER: We don't need to see his identification.

BEN: These are not the droids your looking for.

TROOPER: These are not the droids we're looking for.

BEN: He can go about his business.

TROOPER: You can go about your business.

BEN: (to Luke): Move along.

TROOPER: Move along. Move along.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

The speeder pulls up in front of a rundown blockhouse cantina on the outskirts of the spaceport. Various strange forms of transport, including several unusual beasts of burden, are parked outside the bar. A Jawa runs up and begins to fondle the speeder.

THREEPIO: I can't abide these Jawas. Disgusting creatures.

As Luke gets out of the speeder he tries to shoo the Jawa away.

LUKE: Go on, go on. I can't understand how we got by those troopers. I thought we were dead.

BEN: The Force can have a strong influence on the weak-minded. You will find it a powerful ally.

LUKE: Do you really think we're going to find a pilot here that'll take us to Alderaan?

BEN: Well, most of the best freighter pilots can be found here. Only watch your step. This place can be a little rough.

LUKE: I'm ready for anything.

THREEPIO: Come along, Artoo.

INT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

The young adventurer and his two mechanical servants follow Ben Kenobi into the smoke-filled cantina. The murky, moldy den is filled with a startling array of weird and exotic alien creatures and monsters at the long metallic bar. At first the sight is horrifying. One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy, furry, scaly, tentacled, and clawed creatures huddle over drinks. Ben moves to an empty spot at the bar near a group of repulsive but human scum. A huge, rough-looking Bartender stops Luke and the robots.

BARTENDER: We don't serve their kind here!

Luke still recovering from the shock of seeing so many outlandish creatures, doesn't quite catch the bartender's drift.

LUKE: What?

BARTENDER: Your droids. They'll have to wait outside. We don't want them here.

Luke looks at old Ben, who is busy talking to one of the Galactic pirates. He notices several of the gruesome creatures along the bar are giving him a very unfriendly glare.

Luke pats Threepio on the shoulder.

LUKE: Listen, why don't you wait out by the speeder. We don't want any trouble.

THREEPIO: I heartily agree with you sir.

Threepio and his stubby partner go outside and most of the creatures at the bar go back to their drinks.

Ben is standing next to Chewbacca, an eight-foot-tall savage looking creature resembling a huge grey bushbaby monkey with fierce baboon-like fangs. His large blue eyes dominate a fur covered face and soften his otherwise awesome appearance. Over his matted, furry body he wears two chrome bandoliers, and little else. He is a two-hundred-year-old Wookiee and a sight to behold.

Ben speaks to the Wookiee, pointing to Luke several times during his conversation and the huge creature suddenly lets out a horrifying laugh. Luke is more than a little bit disconcerted and pretends not to hear the conversation between Ben and the giant Wookiee.

Luke is terrified but tries not to show it. He quietly sips his drink, looking over the crowd for a more sympathetic ear or whatever.

A large, multiple-eyed Creature gives Luke a rough shove.

CREATURE: Negola dewaghi wooldugger?!?

The hideous freak is obviously drunk. Luke tries to ignore the creature and turns back on his drink. A short, grubby Human and an even smaller rodent-like beast join the belligerent monstrosity.

HUMAN: He doesn't like you.

LUKE: I'm sorry.

HUMAN: I don't like you either.

The big creature is getting agitated and yells out some unintelligible gibberish at the now rather nervous, young adventurer.

HUMAN: Don't insult us. You just watch yourself. We're wanted men. I have the death sentence in twelve systems.

LUKE: I'll be careful than.

HUMAN: You'll be dead.

The rodent lets out a loud grunt and everything at the bar moves away. Luke tries to remain cool but it isn't easy. His three adversaries ready their weapons. Old Ben moves in behind Luke.

BEN: This little one isn't worth the effort. Come let me buy you something...

A powerful blow from the unpleasant creature sends the young would-be Jedi sailing across the room, crashing through tables and breaking a large jug filled with a foul-looking liquid. With a blood curdling shriek, the monster draws a wicked chrome laser pistol from his belt and levels it at old Ben. The bartender panics.

BARTENDER: No blasters! No blaster!

With astounding agility old Ben's laser sword sparks to life and in a flash an arm lies on the floor. The rodent is cut in two and the giant multiple-eyed creature lies doubled, cut from chin to groin. Ben carefully and precisely turns off his laser sword and replaces it on his utility belt. Luke, shaking and totally amazed at the old man's abilities, attempts to stand. The entire fight has lasted only a matter of seconds. The cantina goes back to normal, although Ben is given a respectable amount of room at the bar. Luke, rubbing his bruised head, approaches the old man with new awe. Ben points the the Wookiee.

BEN: This is Chewbacca. He's first-mate on a ship that might suit our needs.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Threepio paces in front of the cantina as Artoo carries on an electronic conversation with another little red astro droid. A creature comes out of the cantina and approaches two stormtroopers in the street.

THREEPIO: I don't like the look of this.

INT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

Strange creatures play exotic big band music on odd-looking instruments as Luke, still giddy, downs a fresh drink and follows Ben and Chewbacca to a booth where Han Solo is sitting. Han is a tough, roguish starpilot about thirty years old. A mercenary on a starship, he is simple, sentimental, and cocksure.

HAN: Han Solo. I'm captain of the Millennium Falcon. Chewie here tells me you're looking for passage to the Alderaan system.

BEN: Yes, indeed. If it's a fast ship.

HAN: Fast ship? You've never heard of the Millennium Falcon?

BEN: Should I have?

HAN: It's the ship that made the Kessel run in less than twelve parsecs!

Ben reacts to Solo's stupid attempt to impress them with obvious misinformation.

HAN: I've outrun Imperial starships, not the local bulk-cruisers, mind you. I'm talking about the big Corellian ships now. She's fast enough for you, old man. What's the cargo?

BEN: Only passengers. Myself, the boy, two droids, and no questions asked.

HAN: What is it? Some kind of local trouble?

BEN: Let's just say we'd like to avoid any Imperial entanglements.

HAN: Well, that's the trick, isn't it? And it's going to cost you something extra. Ten thousand in advance.

LUKE: Ten thousand? We could almost buy our own ship for that!

HAN: But who's going to fly it, kid! You?

LUKE: You bet I could. I'm not such a bad pilot myself! We don't have to sit here and listen...

BEN: We haven't that much with us. But we could pay you two thousand now, plus fifteen when we reach Alderaan.

HAN: Seventeen, huh!

Han ponders this for a few moments.

HAN: Okay. You guys got yourself a ship. We'll leave as soon as you're ready. Docking bay Ninety-four.

BEN: Ninety-four.

HAN: Looks like somebody's beginning to take an interest in your handiwork.

Ben and Luke turn around to see four Imperial stormtroopers looking at the dead bodies and asking the bartenders some questions. The bartender points to the booth.

TROOPER: All right, we'll check it out.

The stormtroopers look over at the booth but Luke and Ben are gone. The bartender shrugs his shoulders in puzzlement.

HAN: Seventeen thousand! Those guys must really be desperate. This could really save my neck. Get back to the ship and get her ready.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

BEN: You'll have to sell your speeder.

LUKE: That's okay. I'm never coming back to this planet again.

INT. MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

As Han is about to leave, Greedo, a slimy green-faced alien with a short trunk-nose, pokes a gun in his side. The creature speaks in a foreign tongue translated into English subtitles.

GREEDO: Going somewhere, Solo?

HAN: Yes, Greedo. As a matter of fact, I was just going to see your boss. Tell Jabba that I've got his money.

Han sits down and the alien sits across from him holding the gun on him.

GREEDO: It's too late. You should have paid him when you had the chance. Jabba's put a price on your head, so large that every bounty hunter in the galaxy will be looking for you. I'm lucky I found you first.

HAN: Yeah, but this time I got the money.

GREEDO: If you give it to me, I might forget I found you.

HAN: I don't have it with me. Tell Jabba...

GREEDO: Jabba's through with you. He has no time for smugglers who drop their shipments at the first sign of an Imperial cruiser.

HAN: Even I get boarded sometimes. Do you think I had a choice?

Han Solo slowly reaches for his gun under the table.

GREEDO: You can tell that to Jabba. He may only take your ship.

HAN: Over my dead body.

GREEDO: That's the idea. I've been looking forward to killing you for a long time.

HAN: Yes, I'll bet you have.

Suddenly the slimy alien disappears in a blinding flash of light. Han pulls his smoking gun from beneath the table as the other patron look on in bemused amazement. Han gets up and starts out of the cantina, flipping the bartender some coins as he leaves.

HAN: Sorry about the mess.

EXT. SPACE

Several TIE fighters approach the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

VADER: Her resistance to the mind probe is considerable. It will be some time before we can extract any information from her.

An Imperial Officer interrupts the meeting.

IMPERIAL OFFICER: The final check-out is complete. All systems are operational. What course shall we set?

TARKIN: Perhaps she would respond to an alternative form of persuasion.

VADER: What do you mean?

TARKIN: I think it is time we demonstrate the full power of this station.: (to soldier): Set your course for Princess Leia's home planet of Alderaan.

TROOPER: With pleasure.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Four heavily-armed stormtroopers move menacingly along a narrow slum alleyway crowed with darkly clad creatures hawking exotic goods in the dingy little stalls. Men, monsters, and robots crouch in the waste-filled doorways, whispering and hiding from the hot winds.

THREEPIO: Lock the door, Artoo.

One of the troopers checks a tightly locked door and moves on down the alleyway. The door slides open a crack and Threepio peeks out. Artoo is barely visible in the background.

TROOPER: All right, check that side of the street. It's secure. Move on to the next door.

The door opens, Threepio moves into the doorway.

THREEPIO: I would much rather have gone with Master Luke than stay here with you. I don't know what all the trouble is about, but I'm sure it must be your fault.

Artoo makes beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: You watch your language!

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET - ALLEYWAY - USED SPEEDER LOT

Ben and Luke are standing in a sleazy used speeder lot, talking with a tall, grotesque, insect-like used speeder dealer. Strange exotic bodies and spindly-legged beasts pass by as the insect concludes the sale by giving Luke some coins.

LUKE: He says it's the best he can do. Since the XP-38 came out, they're just not in demand.

BEN: It will be enough.

Ben and Luke leave the speeder lot and walk down the dusty alleyway past a small robot herding a bunch of anteater-like creatures. Luke turns and gives one last forlorn look at his faithful speeder as he rounds a corner. A darkly clad creature moves out of the shadows as they pass and watches them as they disappear down another alley.

BEN: If the ship's as fast as he's boasting, we ought to do well.

INT. DOCKING BAY 94 - DAY

Jabba the Hut and a half-dozen grisly alien pirates and purple creatures stand in the middle of the docking bay. Jabba is the grossest of the slavering hulks and his scarred face is a grim testimonial to his prowess as a vicious killer. He is a fat, slug-like creature with eyes on extended feelers and a huge ugly mouth.

JABBA: Come on out, Solo!

A voice from directly behind the pirates startles them and they turn around to see Han Solo and the giant Wookiee, Chewbacca, standing behind them with no weapons in sight.

HAN: I've been waiting for you, Jabba.

JABBA: I expected you would be.

HAN: I'm not the type to run.

JABBA: (fatherly-smooth): Han, my boy, there are times when you disappoint me... why haven't you paid me? And why did you have to fry poor Greedo like that... after all we've been through together.

HAN: You sent Greedo to blast me.

JABBA: (mock surprise): Han, why you're the best smuggler in the business. You're too valuable to fry. He was only relaying my concern at your delays. He wasn't going to blast you.

HAN: I think he thought he was. Next time don't send one of those twerps. If you've got something to say to me, come see me yourself.

JABBA: Han, Han! If only you hadn't had to dump that shipment of spice... you understand I just can't make an exception. Where would I be if every pilot who smuggled for me dumped their shipment at the first sign of an Imperial starship? It's not good business.

HAN: You know, even I get boarded sometimes, Jabba. I had no choice, but I've got a charter now and I can pay you back, plus a little extra. I just need some more time.

JABBA: (to his men): Put your blasters away. Han, my boy, I'm only doing this because you're the best and I need you. So, for an extra, say twenty percent I'll give you a little more time... but this is it. If you disappoint me again, I'll put a price on your head so large you won't be able to go near a civilized system for the rest of your short life.

HAN: Jabba, I'll pay you because it's my pleasure.

EXT. DOCKING PORT ENTRY - ALLEYWAY

Chewbacca waits restlessly at the entrance to Docking Bay 94. Ben, Luke, and the robots make their way up the street. Chewbacca jabbers excitedly and signals for them to hurry. The darkly clad creature has followed them from the speeder lot. He stops in a nearby doorway and speaks into a small transmitter.

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94

Chewbacca leads the group into a giant dirt pit that is Docking Bay 94. Resting in the middle of the huge hole is a large, round, beat-up, pieced-together hunk of junk that could only loosely be called a starship.

LUKE: What a piece of junk.

The tall figure of Han Solo comes down the boarding ramp.

HAN: She'll make point five beyond the speed of light. She may not look like much, but she's got it where it counts, kid. I've added some special modifications myself.

Luke scratches his head. It's obvious he isn't sure about all this. Chewbacca rushes up the ramp and urges the others to follow.

HAN: We're a little rushed, so if you'll hurry aboard we'll get out of here.

The group rushes up the gang plank, passing a grinning Han Solo.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Chewbacca settles into the pilot's chair and starts the mighty engines of the starship.

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94

Luke, Ben, Threepio, and Artoo move toward the Millennium Falcon passing Solo.

THREEPIO: Hello, sir.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Eight Imperial stormtroopers rush up to the darkly clad creature.

TROOPER: Which way?

The darkly clad creature points to the door of the docking bay.

TROOPER: All right, men. Load your weapons!

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94]

The troops hold their guns at the ready and charge down the docking bay entrance.

TROOPER: Stop that ship!

Han Solo looks up and sees the Imperial stormtroopers rushing into the docking bay. Several of the troopers fire at Han as he ducks into the spaceship.

TROOPER: Blast 'em!

Han draws his laser pistol and pops off a couple of shots which force the stormtroopers to dive for safety. The pirateship engines whine as Han hits the release button that slams the overhead entry shut.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

HAN: Chewie, get us out of here!

The group straps in for take off.

THREEPIO: Oh, my. I'd forgotten how much I hate space travel.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREETS

The half-dozen stormtroopers at a check point hear the general alarm and look to the sky as the huge starship rises above the dingy slum dwellings and quickly disappears into the morning sky.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han climbs into the pilot's chair next to Chewbacca, who chatters away as he points to something on the radar scope.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

The Corellian pirateship zooms from Tatooine into space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han frantically types information into the ship's computer. Little Artoo appears momentarily at the cockpit doorway, makes a few beeping remarks, then scurries away.

HAN: It looks like an Imperial cruiser. Our passengers must be hotter than I thought. Try and hold them off. Angle the deflector shield while I make the calculations for the jump to light speed.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

The Millennium Falcon pirateship races away from the yellow planet, Tatooine. It is followed by two huge Imperial stardestroyers.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Over the shoulders of Chewbacca and Han, we can see the galaxy spread before them. Luke and Ben make their way into the cramped cockpit where Han continues his calculation.

HAN: Stay sharp! There are two more coming in; they're going to try to cut us off.

LUKE: Why don't you outrun them? I thought you said this thing was fast.

HAN: Watch your mouth, kid, or you're going to find yourself floating home. We'll be safe enough once we make the jump to hyperspace. Besides, I know a few maneuvers. We'll lose them!

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

Imperial cruisers fire at the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship shudders as an explosion flashes outside the window.

HAN: Here's where the fun begins!

BEN: How long before you can make the jump to light speed?

HAN: It'll take a few moments to get the coordinates from the navi-computer.

The ship begins to rock violently as lasers hit it.

LUKE: Are you kidding? At the rate they're gaining...

HAN: Traveling through hyperspace isn't like dusting crops, boy! Without precise calculations we could fly right through a star or bounce too close to a supernova and that'd end your trip real quick, wouldn't it?

The ship is now constantly battered with laserfire as a red warning light begins to flash.

LUKE: What's that flashing?

HAN: We're losing our deflector shield. Go strap yourself in, I'm going to make the jump to light speed.

The galaxy brightens and they move faster, almost as if crashing a barrier. Stars become streaks as the pirateship makes the jump to hyperspace.

EXT. SPACE

The Millennium Falcon zooms into infinity in less than a second.

EXT. DEATH STAR

Alderaan looms behind the Death Star battlestation.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Admiral Motti enters the quiet control room and bows before Governor Tarkin, who stands before the huge wall screen displaying a small green planet.

MOTTI: We've entered the Alderaan system.

Vader and two stormtroopers enter with Princess Leia. Her hands are bound.

LEIA: Governor Tarkin, I should have expected to find you holding Vader's leash. I recognized your foul stench when I was brought on board.

TARKIN: Charming to the last. You don't know how hard I found it signing the order to terminate your life!

LEIA: I surprised you had the courage to take the responsibility yourself!

TARKIN: Princess Leia, before your execution I would like you to be my guest at a ceremony that will make this battle station operational. No star system will dare oppose the Emperor now.

LEIA: The more you tighten your grip, Tarkin, the more star systems will slip through your fingers.

TARKIN: Not after we demonstrate the power of this station. In a way, you have determined the choice of the planet that'll be destroyed first. Since you are reluctant to provide us with the location of the Rebel base, I have chosen to test this station's destructive power... on your home planet of Alderaan.

LEIA: No! Alderaan is peaceful. We have no weapons. You can't possibly...

TARKIN: You would prefer another target? A military target? Then name the system!

Tarkin waves menacingly toward Leia.

TARKIN: I grow tired of asking this. So it'll be the last time. Where is the Rebel base?

Leia overhears an intercom voice announcing the approach to Alderaan.

LEIA: (softly): Dantooine.

Leia lowers her head.

LEIA: They're on Dantooine.

TARKIN: There. You see Lord Vader, she can be reasonable.: (addressing Motti): Continue with the operation. You may fire when ready.

LEIA: What?

TARKIN: You're far too trusting. Dantooine is too remote to make an effective demonstration. But don't worry. We will deal with your Rebel friends soon enough.

LEIA: No!

INT. DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

VADER: Commence primary ignition.

A button is pressed which switches on a panel of lights. A hooded Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. Another lever is pulled. Vader reaches for still another lever and a bank of lights on a panel and wall light up. A huge beam of light emanates from within a cone-shaped area and converges into a single laser beam out toward Alderaan. The small green planet of Alderaan is blown into space dust.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Ben watches Luke practice the lightsaber with a small "seeker" robot. Ben suddenly turns away and sits down. He falters, seems almost faint.

LUKE: Are you all right? What's wrong?

BEN: I felt a great disturbance in the Force... as if millions of voices suddenly cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced. I fear something terrible has happened.

Ben rubs his forehead. He seems to drift into a trance. Then he fixes his gaze on Luke.

BEN: You'd better get on with your exercises.

Han Solo enters the room.

HAN: Well, you can forget your troubles with those Imperial slugs. I told you I'd outrun 'em.

Luke is once again practicing with the lightsaber.

HAN: Don't everyone thank me at once.

Threepio watches Chewbacca and Artoo who are engrossed in a game in which three-dimensional holographic figures move along a chess-type board.

HAN: Anyway, we should be at Alderaan about oh-two-hundred hours.

Chewbacca and the two robots sit around the lighted table covered with small holographic monsters. Each side of the table has a small computer monitor embedded in it. Chewbacca seems very pleased with himself as he rests his lanky fur- covered arms over his head.

THREEPIO: Now be careful, Artoo.

Artoo immediately reaches up and taps the computer with his stubby claw hand, causing one of the holographic creatures to walk to the new square. A sudden frown crosses Chewbacca's face and he begins yelling gibberish at the tiny robot. Threepio intercedes on behalf of his small companion and begins to argue with the huge Wookiee.

THREEPIO: He made a fair move. Screaming about it won't help you.

HAN: (interrupting): Let him have it. It's not wise to upset a Wookiee.

THREEPIO: But sir, nobody worries about upsetting a droid.

HAN: That's 'cause droids don't pull people's arms out of their socket when they lose. Wookiees are known to do that.

THREEPIO: I see your point, sir. I suggest a new strategy, Artoo. Let the Wookiee win.

Luke stands in the middle of the small hold area; he seems frozen in place. A humming lightsaber is held high over his head. Ben watches him from the corner, studying his movements. Han watches with a bit of smugness.

BEN: Remember, a Jedi can feel the Force flowing through him.

LUKE: You mean it controls your actions?

BEN: Partially. But it also obeys your commands.

Suspended at eye level, about ten feet in front of Luke, a "seeker", a chrome baseball-like robot covered with antennae, hovers slowly in a wide arc. The ball floats to one side of the youth then the other. Suddenly it makes a lightning-swift lunge and stops within a few feet of Luke's face. Luke doesn't move and the ball backs off. It slowly moves behind the boy, then makes another quick lunge, this time emitting a blood red laser beam as it attacks. It hits Luke in the leg causing him to tumble over. Han lets loose with a burst of laughter.

HAN: Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side, kid.

LUKE: You don't believe in the Force, do you?

HAN: Kid, I've flown from one side of this galaxy to the other. I've seen a lot of strange stuff, but I've never seen anything to make me believe there's one all-powerful force controlling everything. There's no mystical energy field that controls my destiny.

Ben smiles quietly.

HAN: It's all a lot of simple tricks and nonsense.

BEN: I suggest you try it again, Luke.

Ben places a large helmet on Luke's head which covers his eyes.

BEN: This time, let go your conscious self and act on instinct.

LUKE: (laughing): With the blast shield down, I can't even see. How am I supposed to fight?

BEN: Your eyes can deceive you. Don't trust them.

Han skeptically shakes his head as Ben throws the seeker into the air. The ball shoots straight up in the air, then drops like a rock. Luke swings the lightsaber around blindly missing the seeker, which fires off a laserbolt which hits Luke square on the seat of the pants. He lets out a painful yell and attempts to hit the seeker.

BEN: Stretch out with your feelings.

Luke stands in one place, seemingly frozen. The seeker makes a dive at Luke and, incredibly, he managed to deflect the bolt. The ball ceases fire and moves back to its original position.

BEN: You see, you can do it.

HAN: I call it luck.

BEN: In my experience, there's no such thing as luck.

HAN: Look, going good against remotes is one thing. Going good against the living? That's something else.

Solo notices a small light flashing on the far side of the control panel.

HAN: Looks like we're coming up on Alderaan.

Han and Chewbacca head back to the cockpit.

LUKE: You know, I did feel something. I could almost see the remote.

BEN: That's good. You have taken your first step into a larger world.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Imperial Officer Cass stands before Governor Tarkin and the evil Dark Lord Darth Vader.

TARKIN: Yes.

OFFICER CASS: Our scout ships have reached Dantooine. They found the remains of a Rebel base, but they estimate that it has been deserted for some time. They are now conducting an extensive search of the surrounding systems.

TARKIN: She lied! She lied to us!

VADER: I told you she would never consciously betray the Rebellion.

TARKIN: Terminate her... immediately!

EXT. HYPERSPACE

The pirateship is just coming out of hyperspace; a strange surreal light show surrounds the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

HAN: Stand by, Chewie, here we go. Cut in the sublight engines.

Han pulls back on a control lever. Outside the cockpit window stars begin streaking past, seem to decrease in speed, then stop. Suddenly the starship begins to shudder and violently shake about. Asteroids begin to race toward them, battering the sides of the ship.

HAN: What the...? Aw, we've come out of hyperspace into a meteor shower. Some kind of asteroid collision. It's not on any of the charts.

The Wookiee flips off several controls and seems very cool in the emergency. Luke makes his way into the bouncing cockpit.

LUKE: What's going on?

HAN: Our position is correct, except... no, Alderaan!

LUKE: What do you mean? Where is it?

HAN: Thats what I'm trying to tell you, kid. It ain't there. It's been totally blown away.

LUKE: What? How?

Ben moves into the cockpit behind Luke as the ship begins to settle down.

BEN: Destroyed... by the Empire!

HAN: The entire starfleet couldn't destroy the whole planet. It'd take a thousand ships with more fire power than I've...

A signal starts flashing on the control panel and a muffled alarm starts humming.

HAN: There's another ship coming in.

LUKE: Maybe they know what happened.

BEN: It's an Imperial fighter.

Chewbacca barks his concern. A huge explosion bursts outside the cockpit window, shaking the ship violently. A tiny, finned Imperial TIE fighter races past the cockpit window.

LUKE: It followed us!

BEN: No. It's a short range fighter.

HAN: There aren't any bases around here. Where did it come from?

EXT. SPACE

The fighter races past the Corellian pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

LUKE: It sure is leaving in a big hurry. If they identify us, we're in big trouble.

HAN: Not if I can help it. Chewie...jam it's transmissions.

BEN: It'd be as well to let it go. It's too far out of range.

HAN: Not for long...

EXT. SPACE

The pirateship zooms over the camera and away into the vastness of space after the Imperial TIE fighter.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The tension mounts as the pirateship gains on the tiny fighter. In the distance, one of the stars becomes brighter until it is obvious that the TIE ship is heading for it. Ben stands behind Chewbacca.

BEN: A fighter that size couldn't get this deep into space on its own.

LUKE: It must have gotten lost, been part of a convoy or something.

HAN: Well, he ain't going to be around long enough to tell anyone about us.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter is losing ground to the larger pirateship as they race toward camera and disappear over head.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The distant star can be distinguished as a small moon or planet.

LUKE: Look at him. He's headed for that small moon.

HAN: I think I can get him before he gets there... he's almost in range.

The small moon begins to take on the appearance of a monstrous spherical battle station.

BEN: That's no moon! It's a space station.

HAN: It's too big to be a space station.

LUKE: I have a very bad feeling about this.

HAN: Yeah, I think your right. Full reverse! Chewie, lock in the auxiliary power.

The pirateship shudders and the TIE fighter accelerates away toward the gargantuan battle station.

LUKE: Why are we still moving towards it?

HAN: We're caught in a tractor beam! It's pulling us in!

LUKE: But there's gotta be something you can do!

HAN: There's nothin' I can do about it, kid. I'm in full power. I'm going to have to shut down. But they're not going to get me without a fight!

Ben Kenobi puts a hand on his shoulder.

BEN: You can't win. But there are alternatives to fighting.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DEATH STAR

As the battered pirate starship is towed closer to the awesome metal moon, the immense size of the massive battle station becomes staggering. Running along the equator of the gigantic sphere is a mile-high band of huge docking ports into which the helpless pirateship is dragged.

EXT. DEATH STAR - HUGE PORT DOORS

The helpless Millennium Falcon is pulled past a docking port control room and huge laser turret cannons.

VOICE OVER DEATH STAR INTERCOM

Clear Bay twenty-three-seven. We are opening the magnetic field.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY 2037

The pirateship is pulled in through port doors of the Death Star, coming to rest in a huge hangar. Thirty stormtroopers stand at attention in a central assembly area.

OFFICER: To you stations!: (to another officer): Come with me.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Stormtroopers run to their posts.

INT. DEATH STAR - HANGAR 2037

A line of stormtroopers march toward the pirateship in readiness to board it, while other troopers stand with weapons ready to fire.

OFFICER: Close all outboard shields! Close all outboard shields!

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Tarkin pushes a button and responds to the intercom buzz.

TARKIN: Yes.

VOICE: (over intercom): We've captured a freighter entering the remains of the Alderaan system. It's markings match those of a ship that blasted its way out of Mos Eisley.

VADER: They must be trying to return the stolen plans to the princess. She may yet be of some use to us.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY 2037

Vader and a commander approach the troops as an Officer and several heavily armed troops exit the spacecraft.

VOICE: (over intercom): Unlock one-five-seven and nine. Release charges.

OFFICER: (to Vader): There's no one on board, sir. According to the log, the crew abandoned ship right after takeoff. It must be a decoy, sir. Several of the escape pods have been jettisoned.

VADER: Did you find any droids?

OFFICER: No, sir. If there were any on board, they must also have jettisoned.

VADER: Send a scanning crew on board. I want every part of this ship checked.

OFFICER: Yes, sir.

VADER: I sense something... a presence I haven't felt since...

Vader turns quickly and exits the hangar.

OFFICER: Get me a scanning crew in here on the double. I want every part of this ship checked!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HALLWAY

A trooper runs through the hallway heading for the exit. In a few moments all is quiet. The muffled sounds of a distant officer giving orders finally fade. Two floor panels suddenly pop up revealing Han Solo and Luke. Ben Kenobi sticks his head out of a third locker.

LUKE: Boy, it's lucky you had these compartments.

HAN: I use them for smuggling. I never thought I'd be smuggling myself in them. This is ridiculous. Even if I could take off, I'd never get past the tractor beam.

BEN: Leave that to me!

HAN: Damn fool. I knew that you were going to say that!

BEN: Who's the more foolish... the fool or the fool who follows him?

Han shakes his head, muttering to himself. Chewbacca agrees.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

The crewmen carry a heavy box on board the ship, past the two stormtroopers guarding either side of the ramp.

TROOPER: The ship's all yours. If the scanners pick up anything, report it immediately. All right, let's go.

The crewmen enter the pirateship and a loud crashing sound is followed by a voice calling to the guard below.

HAN'S VOICE: Hey down there, could you give us a hand with this?

The stormtroopers enter the ship and a quick round of gunfire is heard.

INT. DEATH STAR - FORWARD BAY - COMMAND OFFICE

In a very small command office near the entrance to the pirateship, a Gantry Officer looks out his window and notices the guards are missing. He speaks into the comlink.

GANTRY OFFICER: TX-four-one-two. Why aren't you at your post? TX-four-one-two, do you copy?

A stormtrooper comes down the ramp of the pirateship and waves to the gantry officer, pointing to his ear indicating his comlink is not working. The gantry officer shakes his head in disgust and heads for the door, giving his aide an annoyed look.

GANTRY OFFICER: Take over. We've got a bad transmitter. I'll see what I can do.

As the officer approaches the door, it slides open revealing the towering Chewbacca. The gantry officer, in a momentary state of shock, stumbles backward. With a bone- chilling howl, the giant Wookiee flattens the officer with one blow. The aide immediately reaches for his pistol, but is blasted by Han, dressed as an Imperial stormtrooper. Ben and the robots enter the room quickly followed by Luke, also dressed as a stormtrooper. Luke quickly removes his helmet.

LUKE: You know, between his howling and your blasting everything in sight, it's a wonder the whole station doesn't know we're here.

HAN: Bring them on! I prefer a straight fight to all this sneaking around.

THREEPIO: We found the computer outlet, sir.

Ben feeds some information into the computer and a map of the city appears on the monitor. He begins to inspect it carefully. Threepio and Artoo look over the control panel. Artoo finds something that makes him whistle wildly.

BEN: Plug in. He should be able to interpret the entire Imperial computer network.

Artoo punches his claw arm into the computer socket and the vast Imperial brain network comes to life, feeding information to the little robot. After a few moments, he beeps something.

THREEPIO: He says he's found the main computer to power the tractor beam that's holding the ship here. He'll try to make the precise location appear on the monitor.

The computer monitor flashes readouts.

THREEPIO: The tractor beam is coupled to the main reactor in seven locations. A power loss at one of the terminals will allow the ship to leave.

Ben studies the data on the monitor readout.

BEN: I don't think you boys can help. I must go alone.

HAN: Whatever you say. I've done more that I bargained for on this trip already.

LUKE: I want to go with you.

BEN: Be patient, Luke. Stay and watch over the droids.

LUKE: But he can...

BEN: They must be delivered safely or other star systems will suffer the same fate as Alderaan. Your destiny lies along a different path than mine. The Force will be with you... always!

Ben adjusts the lightsaber on his belt and silently steps out of the command office, then disappears down a long grey hallway. Chewbacca barks a comment and Han shakes his head in agreement.

HAN: Boy you said it, Chewie.

Han looks at Luke.

HAN: Where did you dig up that old fossil?

LUKE: Ben is a great man.

HAN: Yeah, great at getting us into trouble.

LUKE: I didn't hear you give any ideas...

HAN: Well, anything would be better than just hanging around waiting for him to pick us up...

LUKE: Who do you think...

Suddenly Artoo begins to whistle and beep a blue streak. Luke goes over to him.

LUKE: What is it?

THREEPIO: I'm afraid I'm not quite sure, sir. He says "I found her", and keeps repeating, "She's here."

LUKE: Well, who... who has he found?

Artoo whistles a frantic reply.

THREEPIO: Princess Leia.

LUKE: The princess? She's here?

HAN: Princess? What's going on?

THREEPIO: Level five. Detention block A A-twenty three. I'm afraid she's scheduled to be terminated.

LUKE: Oh, no! We've got to do something.

HAN: What are you talking about?

LUKE: The droid belongs to her. She's the one in the message... We've got to help her.

HAN: Now, look, don't get any funny ideas. The old man wants us to wait right here.

LUKE: But he didn't know she was here. Look, will you just find a way back into the detention block?

HAN: I'm not going anywhere.

LUKE: They're going to execute her. Look, a few minutes ago you said you didn't want to just wait here to be captured. Now all you want to do is stay.

HAN: Marching into the detention area is not what I had in mind.

LUKE: But they're going to kill her!

HAN: Better her than me...

LUKE: She's rich.

Chewbacca growls.

HAN: Rich?

LUKE: Yes. Rich, powerful! Listen, if you were to rescue her, the reward would be...

HAN: What?

LUKE: Well more wealth that you can imagine.

HAN: I don't know, I can imagine quite a bit!

LUKE: You'll get it!

HAN: I better!

LUKE: You will...

HAN: All right, kid. But you'd better be right about this.

Han looks at Chewie, who grunts a short grunt.

LUKE: All right.

HAN: What's your plan?

LUKE: Uh... Threepio, hand me those binders there will you?

Luke moves toward Chewbacca with electronic cuffs.

LUKE: Okay. Now, I'm going to put these on you.

Chewie lets out a hideous growl.

LUKE: Okay. Han, you put these on.

Luke sheepishly hands the binders to Han.

HAN: Don't worry, Chewie. I think I know what he has in mind.

The Wookiee has a worried and frightened look on his face as Han binds him with the electronic cuffs.

THREEPIO: Master Luke, sir! Pardon me for asking... but, ah... what should Artoo and I do if we're discovered here?

LUKE: Lock the door!

HAN: And hope they don't have blasters.

THREEPIO: That isn't very reassuring.

Luke and Han put on their armored stormtrooper helmets and start off into the giant Imperial Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION AREA - ELEVATOR TUBE

Han and Luke try to look inconspicuous in their armored suits as they wait for a vacuum elevator to arrive. Troops, bureaucrats, and robots bustle about, ignoring the trio completely. Only a few give the giant Wookiee a curious glance.

Finally a small elevator arrives and the trio enters.

LUKE: I can't see a thing in this helmet.

A bureaucrat races to get aboard also, but is signaled away by Han. The door to the pod-like vehicle slides closed and the elevator car takes off through a vacuum tube.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN HALLWAY

Several Imperial officers walk through the wide main passageway. They pass several stormtroopers and a robot similar to Threepio but with an insect face. At the far end of the hallway, a passing flash of Ben Kenobi appears, then disappears down a small hallway. His appearance is so fleeting that it is hard to tell if he is real or just an illusion. No one in the hallway seems to notice him.

INT. DEATH STAR - INTERIOR ELEVATOR - DETENTION SECURITY AREA

Luke and Han step forward to exit the elevator, but the door slides open behind them. The giant Wookiee and his two guards enter the old grey security station. Guards and laser gates are everywhere. Han whispers to Luke under his breath.

HAN: This is not going to work.

LUKE: Why didn't you say so before?

HAN: I did say so before!

INT. DETENTION AREA

Elevator doors open. A tall, grim looking Officer approaches the trio.

OFFICER: Where are you taking this... thing?

Chewie growls a bit at the remark but Han nudges him to shut up.

LUKE: Prisoner transfer from Block one-one three-eight.

OFFICER: I wasn't notified. I'll have to clear it.

The officer goes back to his console and begins to punch in the information. There are only three other troopers in the area. Luke and Han survey the situation, checking all of the alarms, laser gates, and camera eyes. Han unfastens one of Chewbacca's electronic cuffs and shrugs to Luke.

Suddenly Chewbacca throws up his hands and lets out with one of his ear-piercing howls. He grabs Han's laser rifle.

HAN: Look out! He's loose!

LUKE: He's going to pull us all apart.

HAN: Go get him!

The startled guards are momentarily dumbfounded. Luke and Han have already pulled out their laser pistols and are blasting away at the terrifying Wookiee. Their barrage of laserfire misses Chewbacca, but hits the camera eyes, laser gate controls, and the Imperial guards. The officer is the last of the guards to fall under the laserfire just as he is about to push the alarm system. Han rushes to the comlink system, which is screeching questions about what is going on. He quickly checks the computer readout.

HAN: We've got to find out which cell this princess of yours is in. Here it is... cell twenty-one-eight-seven. You go get her. I'll hold them here.

Luke races down one of the cell corridors. Han speaks into the buzzing comlink.

HAN: (sounding official): Everything is under control. Situation normal.

INTERCOM VOICE: What happened?

HAN: (getting nervous): Uh... had a slight weapons malfunction. But, uh, everything's perfectly all right now. We're fine. We're all fine here, now, thank you. How are you?

INTERCOM VOICE: We're sending a squad up.

HAN: Uh, uh, negative. We had a reactor leak here now. Give us a few minutes to lock it down. Large leak... very dangerous.

INTERCOM VOICE: Who is this? What's your operating number?

Han blasts the comlink and it explodes.

HAN: Boring conversation anyway.: (yelling down the hall): Luke! We're going to have company!

INT. DEATH STAR - CELL ROW

Luke stops in front of one of the cells and blasts the door away with a laser pistol. When the smoke clears, Luke sees the dazzling young princess-senator. She had been sleeping and is now looking at him with an uncomprehending look on her face. Luke is stunned by her incredible beauty and stands staring at her with his mouth hanging open.

LEIA: (finally): Aren't you a little short to be a stormtrooper?

Luke takes off his helmet, coming out of it.

LUKE: What? Oh... the uniform. I'm Luke Skywalker. I'm here to rescue you.

LEIA: You're who?

LUKE: I'm here to rescue you. I've got your R2 unit. I'm here with Ben Kenobi.

LEIA: Ben Kenobi is here! Where is he?

LUKE: Come on!

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Darth Vader paces the room as Governor Tarkin sits at the far end of the conference table.

VADER: He is here...

TARKIN: Obi-Wan Kenobi! What makes you think so?

VADER: A tremor in the Force. The last time I felt it was in the presence of my old master.

TARKIN: Surely he must be dead by now.

VADER: Don't underestimate the power of the Force.

TARKIN: The Jedi are extinct, their fire has gone out of the universe. You, my friend, are all that's left of their religion.

There is a quiet buzz on the comlink.

TARKIN: Yes.

INTERCOM VOICE: Governor Tarkin, we have an emergency alert in detention block A A-twenty three.

TARKIN: The princess! Put all sections on alert!

VADER: Obi-Wan is here. The Force is with him.

TARKIN: If you're right, he must not be allowed to escape.

VADER: Escape is not his plan. I must face him alone.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION AREA - HALLWAY

An ominous buzzing sound is heard on the other side of the elevator door.

HAN: Chewie!

Chewbacca responds with a growling noise.

HAN: Get behind me! Get behind me!

A series of explosions knock a hole in the elevator door through which several Imperial troops begin to emerge.

Han and Chewie fire laser pistols at them through the smoke and flame. They turn and run down the cell hallway, meeting up with Luke and Leia rushing toward them.

HAN: Can't get out that way.

LEIA: Looks like you managed to cut off our only escape route.

HAN: (sarcastically): Maybe you'd like it back in your cell, Your Highness.

Luke takes a small comlink transmitter from his belt as they continue to exchange fire with stormtroopers making their way down the corridor.

LUKE: See-Threepio! See-Threepio!

THREEPIO: (over comlink): Yes sir?

LUKE: We've been cut off! Are there any other ways out of the cell bay?... What was that? I didn't copy!

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN BAY GANTRY - CONTROL TOWER

Threepio paces the control center as little Artoo beeps and whistles a blue streak. Threepio yells into the small comlink transmitter.

THREEPIO: I said, all systems have been alerted to your presence, sir. The main entrance seems to be the only way in or out; all other information on your level is restricted.

Someone begins banging on the door.

TROOPER VOICE: Open up in there!

THREEPIO: Oh, no!

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION CORRIDOR

Luke and Leia crouch together in an alcove for protection as they continue to exchange fire with troops. Han and Chewbacca are barely able to keep the stormtroopers at bay at the far and of the hallway. The laserfire is very intense, and smoke fills the narrow cell corridor.

LUKE: There isn't any other way out.

HAN: I can't hold them off forever! Now what?

LEIA: This is some rescue. When you came in here, didn't you have a plan for getting out?

HAN: (pointing to Luke): He's the brains, sweetheart.

Luke manages a sheepish grin and shrugs his shoulders.

LUKE: Well, I didn't...

The princess grabs Luke's gun and fires at a small grate in the wall next to Han, almost frying him.

HAN: What the hell are you doing?

LEIA: Somebody has to save our skins. Into the garbage chute, wise guy.

She jumps through the narrow opening as Han and Chewbacca look on in amazement. Chewbacca sniffs the garbage chute and says something.

HAN: Get in there you big furry oaf! I don't care what you smell! Get in there and don't worry about it.

Han gives him a kick and the Wookiee disappears into the tiny opening. Luke and Han continue firing as they work their way toward the opening.

HAN: Wonderful girl! Either I'm going to kill her or I'm beginning to like her. Get in there!

Luke ducks laserfire as he jumps into the darkness. Han fires off a couple of quick blasts creating a smokey cover, then slides into the chute himself and is gone.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

Han tumbles into the large room filled with garbage and muck. Luke is already stumbling around looking for an exit. He finds a small hatchway and struggles to get it open. It won't budge.

HAN: (sarcastically): Oh! The garbage chute was a really wonderful idea. What an incredible smell you've discovered! Let's get out of here! Get away from there...

LUKE: No! wait!

Han draws his laser pistol and fires at the hatch. The laserbolt ricochets wildly around the small metal room. Everyone dives for cover in the garbage as the bolt explodes almost on top of them. Leia climbs out of the garbage with a rather grim look on her face.

LUKE: Will you forget it? I already tried it. It's magnetically sealed!

LEIA: Put that thing away! You're going to get us all killed.

HAN: Absolutely, Your Worship. Look, I had everything under control until you led us down here. You know, it's not going to take them long to figure out what happened to us.

LEIA: It could be worse...

A loud, horrible, inhuman moan works its way up from the murky depths. Chewbacca lets out a terrified howl and begins to back away. Han and Luke stand fast with their laser pistols drawn. The Wookiee is cowering near one of the walls.

HAN: It's worse.

LUKE: There's something alive in here!

HAN: That's your imagination.

LUKE: Something just moves past my leg! Look! Did you see that?

HAN: What?

LUKE: Help!

Suddenly Luke is yanked under the garbage.

HAN: Luke! Luke! Luke!

Solo tries to get to Luke. Luke surfaces with a gasp of air and thrashing of limbs. A membrane tentacle is wrapped around his throat.

LEIA: Luke!

Leia extends a long pipe toward him.

LEIA: Luke, Luke, grab a hold of this.

LUKE: Blast it, will you! My gun's jammed.

HAN: Where?

LUKE: Anywhere! Oh!!

Solo fires his gun downward. Luke is pulled back into the muck by the slimy tentacle.

HAN: Luke! Luke!

Suddenly the walls of the garbage receptacle shudder and move in a couple of inches. Then everything is deathly quiet. Han and Leia give each other a worried look as Chewbacca howls in the corner. With a rush of bubbles and muck Luke suddenly bobs to the surface.

LEIA: Grab him!

Luke seems to be released by the thing.

LEIA: What happened?

LUKE: I don't know, it just let go of me and disappeared...

HAN: I've got a very bad feeling about this.

Before anyone can say anything the walls begin to rumble and edge toward the Rebels.

LUKE: The walls are moving!

LEIA: Don't just stand there. Try to brace it with something.

They place poles and long metal beams between the closing walls, but they are simply snapped and bent as the giant trashmasher rumbles on. The situation doesn't look too good.

LUKE: Wait a minute!

Luke pulls out his comlink.

LUKE: Threepio! Come in Threepio! Threepio! Where could he be?

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN GANTRY - COMMAND OFFICE

A soft buzzer and the muted voice of Luke calling out for See-Threepio can be heard on Threepio's hand comlink, which is sitting on the deserted computer console. Artoo and Threepio are nowhere in sight. Suddenly there is a great explosion and the door of the control tower flies across the floor. Four armed stormtroopers enter the chamber.

FIRST TROOPER: Take over!: (pointing to the dead officer): See to him! Look there!

A trooper pushes a button and the supply cabinet door slides open. See-Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are inside. Artoo follows his bronze companion out into the office.

THREEPIO: They're madmen! They're heading for the prison level. If you hurry, you might catch them.

FIRST OFFICER: (to his troops): Follow me! You stand guard.

The troops hustle off down the hallway, leaving a guard to watch over the command office.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo): Come on!

The guard aims a blaster at them.

THREEPIO: Oh! All this excitement has overrun the circuits of my counterpart here. If you don't mind, I'd like to take him down to maintenance.

TROOPER: All right.

The guard nods and Threepio, with little Artoo in tow, hurries out the door.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

As the walls rumble closed, the room gets smaller and smaller. Chewie is whining and trying to hold a wall back with his giant paws.

Han is leaning back against the other wall. Garbage is snapping and popping. Luke is trying to reach Threepio.

LUKE: Threepio! Come in, Threepio! Threepio!

Han and Leia try to brace the contracting walls with a pole. Leia begins to sink into the trash.

HAN: Get to the top!

LEIA: I can't

LUKE: Where could he be? Threepio! Threepio, will you come in?

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

THREEPIO: They aren't here! Something must have happened to them. See if they've been captured.

Little Artoo carefully plugs his claw arm into a new wall socket and a complex array of electronic sounds spew from the tiny robot.

THREEPIO: Hurry!

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

The walls are only feet apart. Leia and Han are braced against the walls. The princess is frightened. They look at each other. Leia reaches out and takes Han's hand and she holds it tightly. She's terrified and suddenly groans as she feels the first crushing pressure against her body.

HAN: One thing's for sure. We're all going to be a lot thinner!: (to Leia): Get on top of it!

LEIA: I'm trying!

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

THREEPIO: (to Artoo): Thank goodness, they haven't found them! Where could they be?

Artoo frantically beeps something to See-Threepio.

THREEPIO: Use the comlink? Oh, my! I forgot I turned it off!

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

Meanwhile, Luke is lying on his side, trying to keep his head above the rising ooze. Luke's comlink begins to buzz and he rips it off his belt.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

Muffled sounds of Luke's voice over the comlink can be heard, but not distinctly.

THREEPIO: Are you there, sir?

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

LUKE: Threepio!

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

THREEPIO: We've had some problems...

LUKE: (over comlink): Will you shut up and listen to me? Shut down all garbage mashers on the detention level, will you? Do you copy?

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

LUKE: Shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

LUKE: (over comlink): Shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo): No. Shut them all down! Hurry!

Threepio holds his head in agony as he hears the incredible screaming and hollering from Luke's comlink.

THREEPIO: Listen to them! They're dying, Artoo! Curse my metal body! I wasn't fast enough. It's all my fault! My poor master!

LUKE: (over comlink): Threepio, we're all right!

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

The screaming and hollering is the sound of joyous relief. The walls have stopped moving. Han, Chewie and Leia embrace in the background.

LUKE: We're all right. You did great.

Luke moves to the pressure sensitive hatch, looking for a number.

LUKE: Hey... hey, open the pressure maintenance hatch on unit number... where are we?

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

HAN: (over comlink): Three-two-six-eight-two-seven.

INT. DEATH STAR - TRACTOR BEAM - POWER GENERATOR TRENCH

Ben enters a humming service trench that powers the huge tractor beam. The trench seems to be a hundred miles deep. The clacking sound of huge switching devices can be heard. The old Jedi edges his his way along a narrow ledge leading to a control panel that connects two large cables. He carefully makes several adjustments in the computer terminal, and several lights on the board go from red to blue.

INT. DEATH STAR - UNUSED HALLWAY

The group exits the garbage room into a dusty, unused hallway. Han and Luke remove the trooper suits and strap on the blaster belts.

HAN: If we can just avoid any more female advice, we ought to be able to get out of here.

Luke smiles and scratches his head as he takes a blaster from Solo.

LUKE: Well, let's get moving!

Chewie begins growling and points to the hatch to the garbage room, as he runs away and then stops howling.

HAN: (to Chewie): Where are you going?

The Dia Nogu bangs against the hatch and a long, slimy tentacle works its way out of the doorway searching for a victim. Han aims his pistol.

LEIA: No, wait. They'll hear!

Han fires at the doorway. The noise of the blast echoes relentlessly throughout the empty passageway. Luke simply shakes his head in disgust.

HAN: (to Chewie): Come here, you big coward!

Chewie shakes his head "no."

HAN: Chewie! Come here!

LEIA: Listen. I don't know who you are, or where you came from, but from now on, you do as I tell you. Okay?

Han is stunned at the command of the petite young girl.

HAN: Look, Your Worshipfulness, let's get one thing straight! I take orders from one person! Me!

LEIA: It's a wonder you're still alive.: (looking at Chewie): Will somebody get this big walking carpet out of my way?

Han watches her start away. He looks at Luke.

HAN: No reward is worth this.

They follow her, moving swiftly down the deserted corridor.

INT. DEATH STAR - POWER TRENCH

Suddenly a door behind Ben slides open and a detachment of stormtroopers marches to the power trench. Ben instantly slips into the shadows as an Officer moves to within a few feet of him.

OFFICER: Secure this area until the alert is canceled.

FIRST TROOPER: Give me regular reports.

All but two of the stormtroopers leave.

FIRST TROOPER: Do you know what's going on?

SECOND TROOPER: Maybe it's another drill.

Ben moves around the tractor beam, watching the stormtroopers as they turn their backs to him. Ben gestures with his hand toward them, as the troops think they hear something in the other hallway. With the help of the Force, Ben deftly slips past the troopers and into the main hallway.

SECOND TROOPER: What was that?

FIRST TROOPER: Oh, it's nothing. Don't worry about it.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Luke, Han, Chewbacca, and Leia run down an empty hallway and stop before a bay window overlooking the pirateship. Troopers are milling about the ship. Luke takes out his pocket comlink.

HAN: (looking at his ship): There she is.

LUKE: See-Threepio, do you copy?

THREEPIO: (voice): For the moment. Uh, we're in the main hangar across from the ship.

LUKE: We're right above you. Stand by.

Han is watching the dozen or so troops moving in and out of the pirateship. Leia moves towards Han, touches his arm and points out the window to the ship.

LEIA: You came in that thing? You're braver that I thought.

HAN: Nice! Come on!

Han gives her a dirty look, and they start off down the hallway. They round a corner and run right into twenty Imperial stormtroopers heading toward them. Both groups are taken by surprise and stop in their tracks.

FIRST TROOPER: It's them! Blast them!

Before even thinking, Han draws his laser pistol and charges the troops, firing. His blaster knocks one of the stormtroopers into the air. Chewie follows his captain down the corridor, stepping over the fallen trooper on the floor.

HAN: (to Luke and Leia): Get back to the ship!

LUKE: Where are you going? Come back!

Han has already rounded a corner and does not hear.

LEIA: He certainly has courage.

LUKE: What good will it do us if he gets himself killed? Come on!

Luke is furious but doesn't have time to think about it for muted alarms begin to go off down on the hangar deck. Luke and Leia start off toward the starship hangar.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Han chases the stormtroopers down a long subhallway. He is yelling and brandishing his laser pistol. The troops reach a dead end and are forced to turn and fight. Han stops a few feet from them and assumes a defensive position. The troops begin to raise their laser guns. Soon all ten troopers are moving into an attack position in front of the lone starpirate. Han's determined look begins to fade as the troops begin to advance. Solo jumps backward as they fire at him.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Chewbacca runs down the subhallway in a last-ditch attempt to save his bold captain. Suddenly he hears the firing of laser guns and yelling. Around the corner shoots Han, pirate extraordinaire, running for his life, followed by a host of furious stormtroopers. Chewbacca turns and starts running the other way also.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Luke fires his laser pistol wildly as he and Leia rush down a narrow subhallway, chased by several stormtroopers. They quickly reach the end of the subhallway and race through an open hatchway.

INT. DEATH STAR - CENTRAL CORE SHAFT

Luke and Leia race through the hatch onto a narrow bridge that spans a huge, deep shaft that seems to go into infinity. The bridge has been retracted into the wall of the shaft, and Luke almost rushes into the abyss. He loses his balance off the end of the bridge as Leia, behind him, takes hold of his arm and pulls him back.

LUKE: (gasping): I think we took a wrong turn.

Blasts from the stormtroopers' laser guns explode nearby reminding them of the oncoming danger. Luke fires back at the advancing troops. Leia reaches over and hits a switch that pops the hatch door shut with a resounding boom, leaving them precariously perched on a short piece of bridge overhang. Laserfire from the troopers continues to hit the steel door.

LEIA: There's no lock!

Luke blasts the controls with his laser pistol.

LUKE: That oughta hold it for a while.

LEIA: Quick, we've got to get across. Find the control that extends the bridge.

LUKE: Oh, I think I just blasted it.

Luke looks at the blasted bridge control while the stormtroopers on the opposite side of the door begin making ominous drilling and pounding sounds.

LEIA: They're coming through!

Luke notices something on his stormtrooper belt, when laserfire hits the wall behind him. Luke aims his laser pistol at a stormtrooper perched on a higher bridge overhang across the abyss from them. They exchange fire. Two more troops appear on another overhang, also firing. A trooper is hit, and grabs at his chest.

Another trooper standing on the bridge overhang is hit by Luke's laserfire, and plummets down the shaft. Troopers move back off the bridge; Luke hands the gun to Leia.

LUKE: Here, hold this.

Luke pulls a thin nylon cable from his trooper utility belt. It has a grappler hook on it. A trooper appears on a bridge overhang and fires at Luke and Leia. As Luke works with the rope, Leia returns the laser volley. Another trooper appears and fires at them, as Leia returns his fire as well. Suddenly, the hatch door begins to open, revealing the feet of more troops.

LEIA: Here they come!

Leia hits one of the stormtroopers on the bridge above, and he falls into the abyss. Luke tosses the rope across the gorge and it wraps itself around an outcropping of pipes. He tugs on the rope to make sure it is secure, then grabs the princess in his arms. Leia looks at Luke, then kisses him quickly on the lips. Luke is very surprised.

LEIA: For luck!

Luke pushes off and they swing across the treacherous abyss to the corresponding hatchway on the opposite side. Just as Luke and Leia reach the far side of the canyon, the stormtroopers break through the hatch and begin to fire at the escaping duo. Luke returns the fire before ducking into the tiny subhallway.

INT. DEATH STAR - NARROW PASSAGEWAY

Ben hides in the shadows of the narrow passageway as several stormtroopers rush past him in the main hallway. He checks to make sure they're gone, then runs down the hallway in the opposite direction. Darth Vader appears at the far end of the hallway and starts after the old Jedi.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

Threepio looks around at the troops milling about the pirateship entry ramp.

THREEPIO: Where could they be?

Artoo, plugged into the computer socket, turns his dome left and right, beeping a response.

INT. DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR - BLAST SHIELDS DOOR

Han and Chewbacca run down a long corridor with several troopers hot on their trail.

TROOPER: Close the blast doors!

At the end of the hallway, blast doors begin to close in front of them. The young starpilot and his furry companion race past the huge doors just as they are closing, and manage to get off a couple off laserblasts at the pursuing troops before the doors slam shut.

TROOPER: Open the blast doors! Open the blast doors!

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY LEADING TO MAIN FORWARD BAY

Ben hurries along one of the tunnels leading to the hangar where the pirateship waits. Just before he reaches the hangar, Darth Vader steps into view at the end of the tunnel, not ten feet away. Vader lights his saber. Ben also ignites his and steps slowly forward.

VADER: I've been waiting for you, Obi-Wan. We meet again, at last. The circle is now complete.

Ben Kenobi moves with elegant ease into a classical offensive position. The fearsome Dark Knight takes a defensive stance.

VADER: When I left you, I was but the learner; now I am the master.

BEN: Only a master of evil, Darth.

The two Galactic warriors stand perfectly still for a few moments, sizing each other up and waiting for the right moment. Ben seems to be under increasing pressure and strain, as if an invisible weight were being placed upon him. He shakes his head and, blinking, tries to clear his eyes.

Ben makes a sudden lunge at the huge warrior but is checked by a lightning movement of The Sith. A masterful slash stroke by Vader is blocked by the old Jedi. Another of the Jedi's blows is blocked, then countered. Ben moves around the Dark Lord and starts backing into the massive starship hangar. The two powerful warriors stand motionless for a few moments with laser swords locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing sound.

VADER: Your powers are weak, old man.

BEN: You can't win, Darth. If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine.

Their lightsabers continue to meet in combat.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

Han Solo and Chewbacca, their weapons in hand, lean back against the wall surveying the forward bay, watching the Imperial stormtroopers make their rounds of the hangar.

HAN: Didn't we just leave this party?

Chewbacca growls a reply, as Luke and the princess join them.

HAN: What kept you?

LEIA: We ran into some old friends.

LUKE: Is the ship all right?

HAN: Seems okay, if we can get to it. Just hope the old man got the tractor beam out of commission.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Vader and Ben Kenobi continue their powerful duel. As they hit their lightsabers together, lightning flashes on impact. Troopers look on in interest as the old Jedi and Dark Lord of The Sith fight. Suddenly Luke spots the battle from his group's vantage point.

LUKE: Look!

Luke, Leia, Han, and Chewie look up and see Ben and Vader emerging from the hallways on the far side of the docking bay.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY

Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are in the center of the Death Star's Imperial docking bay.

THREEPIO: Come on, Artoo, we're going!

Threepio ducks out of sight as the seven stormtroopers who were guarding the starship rush past them heading towards Ben and The Sith Knight. He pulls on Artoo.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Solo, Chewie, Luke, and Leia tensely watch the duel. The troops rush toward the battling knights.

HAN: Now's our chance! Go!

They start for the Millennium Falcon. Ben sees the troops charging toward him and realizes that he is trapped. Vader takes advantage of Ben's momentary distraction and brings his mighty lightsaber down on the old man. Ben manages to deflect the blow and swiftly turns around.

The old Jedi Knight looks over his shoulder at Luke, lifts his sword from Vader's then watches his opponent with a serene look on his face.

Vader brings his sword down, cutting old Ben in half. Ben's cloak falls to the floor in two parts, but Ben is not in it. Vader is puzzled at Ben's disappearance and pokes at the empty cloak. As the guards are distracted, the adventurers and the robots reach the starship. Luke sees Ben cut in two and starts for him. Aghast, he yells out.

LUKE: No!

The stormtroopers turn toward Luke and begin firing at him. The robots are already moving up the ramp into the Millennium Falcon, while Luke, transfixed by anger and awe, returns their fire. Solo joins in the laserfire. Vader looks up and advances toward them, as one of his troopers is struck down.

HAN: (to Luke): Come on!

LEIA: Come on! Luke, its too late!

HAN: Blast the door! Kid!

Luke fires his pistol at the door control panel, and it explodes. The door begins to slide shut. Three troopers charge forward firing laser bolts, as the door slides to a close behind them, shutting Vader and the other troops out of the docking bay. A stormtrooper lies dead at the feet of his onrushing compatriots. Luke starts for the advancing troops, as Solo and Leia move up the ramp into the pirateship. He fires, hitting a stormtrooper, who crumbles to the floor.

BEN'S VOICE: Run, Luke! Run!

Luke looks around to see where the voice came from. He turns toward the pirateship, ducking Imperial gunfire from the troopers and races into the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han pulls back on the controls and the ship begins to move. The dull thud of laser bolts bouncing off the outside of the ship as Chewie adjusts his controls.

HAN: I hope the old man got that tractor beam out if commission, or this is going to be a real short trip. Okay, hit it!

Chewbacca growls in agreement.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Millennium Falcon powers away from the Death Star docking bay, makes a spectacular turn and disappears into the vastness of space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Luke, saddened by the loss of Obi-Wan Kenobi, stares off blankly as the robots look on. Leia puts a blanket around him protectively, and Luke turns and looks up at her. She sits down beside him.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Solo spots approaching enemy ships.

HAN: (to Chewie): We're coming up on the sentry ships. Hold 'em off! Angle the deflector shields while I charge up the main guns!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Luke looks downward sadly, shaking his head back and forth, as the princess smiles comfortingly at him.

LUKE: I can't believe he's gone.

Artoo-Detoo beeps a reply.

LEIA: There wasn't anything you could have done.

Han rushes into the hold area where Luke is sitting with the princess.

HAN: (to Luke): Come on, buddy, we're not out of this yet!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Solo climbs into his attack position in the topside gunport.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

Luke gets up and moves out toward the gunports as Leia heads for the cockpit.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Luke climbs down the ladder into the gunport cockpit, settling into one of the two main laser cannons mounted in large rotating turrets on either side of the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SOLO'S GUNPORT

Han adjusts his headset as he sits before the controls of his laser cannon, then speaks into the attached microphone.

HAN: (to Luke): You in, kid? Okay, stay sharp!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Chewbacca and Princess Leia search the heavens for attacking TIE fighters. The Wookiee pulls back on the speed controls as the ship bounces slightly.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SOLO'S GUNPORT - COCKPIT

Computer graphic readouts form on Solo's target screen, as Han reaches for controls.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT - COCKPIT

Luke sits in readiness for the attack, his hand on the laser cannon's control button.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT.

Chewbacca spots the enemy ships and barks.

LEIA: (into intercom): Here they come!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - POV (POINT OF VIEW) - SPACE

The Imperial TIE fighters move towards the Millennium Falcon, one each veering off to the left and right of the pirateship.

INT. TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT

The stars whip past behind the Imperial pilot as he adjusts his maneuvering joy stick.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - IN SPACE

The TIE fighter races past the Falcon, firing laser beams as it passes.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

Threepio is seated in the hold area, next to Artoo-Detoo. The pirateship bounces and vibrates as the power goes out in the room and then comes back on.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - GUNPORTS

A TIE fighter maneuvers in front of Han, who follows it and fires at it with the laser cannon. Luke does likewise, as the fighter streaks into view. The ship has suffered a minor hit, and bounces slightly.

EXT. SPACE

Two TIE fighters dive down toward the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires at an unseen fighter.

LUKE: They're coming in too fast!

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON/TIE FIGHTERS

Pan with pirateship as two TIE fighters charge through the background. Laserbolts streak from all the craft.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CHEWBACCA

The ship shudders as a laserbolt hits very close to the cockpit. The Wookiee chatters something to Leia.

EXT. TIE FIGHTER - SPACE

Full shot of a TIE fighter as it moves fast through the frame, firing on the pirate starship.

EXT. SPACE - TIE FIGHTERS

The two TIE fighters fire a barrage of laserbeams at the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN PASSAGEWAY

A laserbolt streaks into the side of the pirateship. The ship lurches violently, throwing poor Threepio into a cabinet fill of small computer chips.

THREEPIO: Oooh!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - GUNPORTS

Leia watches the computer readout as Chewbacca manipulates the ship's controls.

LEIA: We've lost lateral controls.

HAN: Don't worry, she'll hold together.

An enemy laserbolt hits the pirateship's control panel, causing it to blow out in a shower of sparks.

HAN: (to ship): You hear me, baby? Hold together!

Artoo-Detoo advances toward the smoking sparking control panel, dousing the inferno by spraying it with fire retardant beeping all the while.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Luke swivels in his gun mount, following the TIE fighter with his laser cannon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Solo aims his laser cannon at the enemy fighter.

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter streaks in front of the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia watches the TIE fighter ship fly over.

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter heads right for the pirateship, then zooms overhead.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke follows the TIE fighter across his field of view, firing laserbeams from his cannon.

EXT. TIE FIGHTER

A TIE fighter dives past the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires at a TIE fighter. At his port, Han follows a fighter in his sights, releasing a blast of laserfire. He connects, and the fighter explodes into fiery dust. Han laughs victoriously.

EXT. SPACE

Two TIE fighters move toward and over the Millennium Falcon, unleashing a barrage of laserbolts at the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Another TIE fighter moves in on the pirateship and Luke, smiling, fires the laser cannon at it, scoring a spectacular direct hit.

LUKE: Got him! I got him!

Han turns and gives Luke a victory wave which Luke gleefully returns.

HAN: Great kid! Don't get cocky.

Han turns back to his laser cannon.

EXT. SPACE

Two more TIE fighters cross in front of the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

While Chewbacca manipulates the controls, Leia turns, looking over her shoulder out the ports.

LEIA: There are still two more of them out there!

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter moves up over the pirateship, firing laserblasts at it.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke and Han look into their respective projected target screens. An Imperial fighter crosses Solo's port, and Han swivels in his chair, following it with blasts from his laser cannon. Another fighter crosses Luke's port, and he reacts in a like manner, the glow of his target screen lighting his face.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter zooms toward the pirateship, firing destructive blasts at it.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires a laserblast at the approaching enemy fighter, and it bursts into a spectacular explosion. Luke's projected screen gives a readout of the hit. The pirateship bounces slightly as it is struck by the enemy fire.

EXT. SPACE - TIE FIGHTER

The last of the attacking Imperial TIE fighters looms in, firing upon the Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Solo swivels behind his cannon, his aim describing the arc of the TIE fighter. The fighter comes closer, firing at the pirateship, but a well-aimed blast from Solo's laser cannon hits the attacker, which blows up in a small atomic shower of burning fragments.

LUKE: (laughing): That's it! We did it!

The princess jumps up and gives Chewie a congratulatory hug.

LEIA: We did it!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - PASSAGEWAY

Threepio lies on the floor of the ship, completely tangled in the smoking, sparking wires.

THREEPIO: Help! I think I'm melting!: (to Artoo): This is all your fault.

Artoo turns his dome from side to side, beeping in response.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The victorious Millennium Falcon moves off majestically through space.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Darth Vader strides into the control room, where Tarkin is watching the huge view screen. A sea of stars is before him.

TARKIN: Are they away?

VADER: They have just made the jump into hyperspace.

TARKIN: You're sure the homing beacon is secure aboard their ship? I'm taking an awful risk, Vader. This had better work.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han, removes his gloves and smiling, is at the controls of the ship. Chewie moves into the aft section to check the damage. Leia is seated near Han.

HAN: Not a bad bit of rescuing, huh? You know, sometimes I even amaze myself.

LEIA: That doesn't sound too hard. Besides, they let us go. It's the only explanation for the ease of our escape.

HAN: Easy... you call that easy?

LEIA: Their tracking us!

HAN: Not this ship, sister.

Frustrated, Leia shakes her head.

LEIA: At least the information in Artoo is still intact.

HAN: What's so important? What's he carrying?

LEIA: The technical readouts of that battle station. I only hope that when the data is analyzed, a weakness can be found. It's not over yet!

HAN: It is for me, sister! Look, I ain't in this for your revolution, and I'm not in it for you, Princess. I expect to be well paid. I'm in it for the money!

LEIA: You needn't worry about your reward. If money is all that you love, then that's what you'll receive!

She angrily turns, and as she starts out of the cockpit, passes Luke coming in.

LEIA: Your friend is quite a mercenary. I wonder if he really cares about anything... or anyone.

LUKE: I care!

Luke, shaking his head, sits in the copilot seat. He and Han stare out at the vast blackness of space.

LUKE: So... what do you think of her, Han?

HAN: I'm trying not to, kid!

LUKE: (under his breath): Good...

HAN: Still, she's got a lot of spirit. I don't know, what do you think? Do you think a princess and a guy like me...

LUKE: No!

Luke says it with finality and looks away. Han smiles at young Luke's jealousy.

EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN

The battered pirateship drifts into orbit around the planet Yavin and proceeds to one of its tiny green moons.

EXT. FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN

The pirateship soars over the dense jungle.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST

An alert guard, his laser gun in hand, scans the countryside. He sets the gun down and looks toward the temple, barely visible in the foliage.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - JUNGLE TEMPLE

Rotting in a forest of gargantuan trees, an ancient temple lies shrouded in an eerie mist. The air is heavy with the fantastic cries of unimaginable creatures. Han, Luke and the others are greeted by the Rebel troops.

Luke and the group ride into the massive temple on an armored military speeder.

INT. MASSASSI - MAIN HANGAR DECK

The military speeder stops in a huge spaceship hangar, set up in the interior of the crumbling temple. Willard, the commander of the Rebel forces, rushes up to the group and gives Leia a big hug. Every one is pleased to see her.

WILLARD: (holding Leia): You're safe! We had feared the worst.

Willard composes himself, steps back and bows formally.

WILLARD: When we heard about Alderaan, we were afraid that you were... lost along with your father.

LEIA: We don't have time for our sorrows, Commander. The battle station has surely tracked us here.: (looking pointedly to Han): It's the only explanation for the ease of our escape. You must use the information in this R2 unit to plan the attack. It is our only hope.

EXT. SPACE

The surface of the Death Star ominously approaches the red planet Yavin.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grand Moff Tarkin and Lord Vader are interrupted in their discussion by the buzz of the comlink. Tarkin moves to answer the call.

TARKIN: Yes.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE

We are approaching the planet Yavin. The Rebel base is on a moon on the far side. We are preparing to orbit the planet.

EXT. YAVIN - JUNGLE

A lone guard stands in a tower high above the Yavin landscape, surveying the countryside. A mist hangs over the jungle of twisted green.

INT. MASSASSI - WAR ROOM BRIEFING AREA

Dodonna stands before a large electronic wall display. Leia and several other senators are to one side of the giant readout. The low-ceilinged room is filled with starpilots, navigators, and a sprinkling of R2-type robots. Everyone is listening intently to what Dodonna is saying. Han and Chewbacca are standing near the back.

DODONNA: The battle station is heavily shielded and carries a firepower greater than half the star fleet. It's defenses are designed around a direct large scale assault. A small one-man fighter should be able to penetrate the outer defense.

Gold Leader, a rough looking man in his early thirties, stands and addresses Dodonna.

GOLD LEADER: Pardon me for asking, sir, but what good are snub fighters going to be against that?

DODONNA: Well, the Empire doesn't consider a small one-man fighter to be any threat, or they'd have a tighter defense. An analysis of the plans provided by Princess Leia has demonstrated a weakness in the battle station.

Artoo-Detoo stands next to a similar robot, makes beeping sounds, and turns his head from right to left.

DODONNA: The approach will not be easy. You are required to maneuver straight down this trench and skim the surface to this point. The target area is only two meters wide. It's a small thermal exhaust port, right below the main port. The shaft leads directly to the reactor system. A precise hit will start a chain reaction which should destroy the station.

A murmer of disbelief runs through the room.

DODONNA: Only a precise hit will set up a chain reaction. The shaft is ray shielded, so you'll have to use proton torpedoes.

Luke is sitting next to Wedge Antilles, a hotshot pilot about sixteen years old.

WEDGE: That's impossible, even for a computer.

LUKE: It's not impossible. I used to bull's eye womp rats in my T-sixteen back home. They're not much bigger than two meters.

DODONNA: Man your ships! And may the Force be with you!

The group rises and begins to leave.

EXT. SPACE

The Death Star begins to move around the planet toward the tiny green moon.

INT. DEATH STAR

Tarkin and Vader watch the computer projected screen with interest, as a circle of lights intertwines around one another on the screen showing it's position in relation to Yavin and the forth moon.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE

Orbiting the planet at maximum velocity. The moon with the Rebel base will be in range in thirty minutes.

VADER: This will be a day long remembered. It has seen the end of Kenobi and it will soon see the end of the Rebellion.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Luke, Threepio and little Artoo enter the huge spaceship hangar and hurry along a long line of gleaming spacefighters. Flight crews rush around loading last-minute armaments and unlocking power couplings. In an area isolated from this activity Luke finds Han and Chewbacca loading small boxes onto an armored speeder.

MAN'S VOICE: (over loudspeaker): All flight trooper, man your stations. All flight troops, man your stations.

Han is deliberately ignoring the activity of the fighter pilots' preparation. Luke is quite saddened at the sight of his friend's departure.

LUKE: So... you got your reward and you're just leaving then?

HAN: That's right, yeah! I got some old debts I've got to pay off with this stuff. Even if I didn't, you don't think I'd be fool enough to stick around here, do you? Why don't you come with us? You're pretty good in a fight. I could use you.

LUKE: (getting angry): Come on! Why don't you take a look around? You know what's about to happen, what they're up against. They could use a good pilot like you. You're turning your back on them.

HAN: What good's a reward if you ain't around to use it? Besides, attacking that battle station ain't my idea of courage. It's more like suicide.

LUKE: All right. Well, take care of yourself, Han. I guess that's what you're best at, isn't it?

Luke goes off and Han hesitates, then calls to him.

HAN: Hey, Luke... may the Force be with you!

Luke turns and sees Han wink at him. Luke lifts his hand in a small wave and then goes off.

Han turns to Chewie who growls at his captain,

HAN: What're you lookin' at? I know what I'm doing.

INT. MAIN HANGAR DECK - LUKE'S SHIP

Luke, Leia, and Dodonna meet under a huge space fighter.

LEIA: What's wrong?

LUKE: Oh, it's Han! I don't know, I really thought he'd change his mind.

LEIA: He's got to follow his own path. No one can choose it for him.

LUKE: I only wish Ben were here.

Leia gives Luke a little kiss, turns, and goes off. As Luke heads for his ship, another pilot rushes up to him and grabs his arm.

BIGGS: Luke! I don't believe it! How'd you get here... are you going out with us?!

LUKE: Biggs! Of course, I'll be up there with you! Listen, have I got some stories to tell...

Red Leader, a rugged handsome man in his forties, comes up behind Luke and Biggs. He has the confident smile of a born leader.

RED LEADER: Are you... Luke Skywalker? Have you been checked out on the Incom T-sixty five?

BIGGS: Sir, Luke is the best bushpilot in the outer rim territories.

Red Leader pats Luke on the back as they stop in front of his fighter.

RED LEADER: I met your father once when I was just a boy, he was a great pilot. You'll do all right. If you've got half of your father's skill, you'll do better than all right.

LUKE: Thank you, sir. I'll try.

Red Leader hurries to his own ship.

BIGGS: I've got to get aboard. Listen, you'll tell me your stories when we come back. All right?

LUKE: I told you I'd make it someday, Biggs.

BIGGS: (going off): You did, all right. It's going to be like old times, Luke. We're a couple of shooting stars that'll never be stopped!

Luke laughs and shakes his head in agreement. He heads for his ship.

As Luke begins to climb up the ladder into his sleek, deadly spaceship, the crew chief, who is working on the craft, points to little Artoo, who is being hoisted into a socket on the back of the fighter.

CHIEF: This R2 unit of your seems a bit beat up. Do you want a new one?

LUKE: Not on your life! That little droid and I have been through a lot together.: (to Artoo): You okay, Artoo?

The crewmen lower Artoo-Detoo into the craft. Now a part of the exterior shell of the starship, the little droid beeps that he is fine.

Luke climbs up into the cockpit of his fighter and puts an his helmet. Threepio looks on from the floor of the massive hangar as the crewmen secure his little electronic partner into Luke's X-wing. It's an emotional-filled moment as Artoo beeps good-bye.

CHIEF: Okay, easy she goes!

THREEPIO: Hang on tight,Artoo, you've got to come back.

Artoo beeps in agreement.

THREEPIO: You wouldn't want my life to get boring, would you?

Artoo whistles his reply.

All final preparations are made for the approaching battle. The hangar is buzzing with the last minute activity as the pilots and crewmen alike make their final adjustments. The hum of activity is occasionally trespassed by the distorted voice of the loudspeaker issuing commands. Coupling hoses are disconnected from the ships as they are fueled. Cockpit shields roll smoothly into place over each pilot. A signalman, holding red guiding lights, directs the ships. Luke, a trace of a smile gracing his lips, peers about through his goggles.

BEN'S VOICE: Luke, the Force will be with you.

Luke is confused at the voice and taps his headphones.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - JUNGLE

All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard standing on a small pedestal jutting out above the dense jungle. The muted gruesome crying sounds that naturally permeate this eerie purgatory are overwhelmed by the thundering din of ion rockets as four silver starships catapult from the foliage in a tight formation and disappears into the morning cloud cover.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

The princess, Threepio, and a field commander sit quietly before the giant display showing the planet Yavin and its four moons. The red dot that represents the Death Star moves ever closer to the system. A series of green dots appear around the fourth moon. A din of indistinct chatter fills the war room.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE: Stand-by alert. Death Star approaching. Estimated time to firing range, fifteen minutes.

EXT. SPACE

The Death Star slowly moves behind the massive yellow surface of Yavin in the foreground, as many X-wing fighters flying in formation zoom toward us and out of the frame.

EXT. SPACE - ANOTHER ANGLE

Light from a distant sun creates an eerie atmospheric glow around a huge planet, Yavin. Rebel fighters flying in formation settle ominously in the foreground and very slowly pull away.

INT. RED LEADER STARSHIP - COCKPIT

Red Leader lowers his visor and adjusts his gun sights, looking to each side at his wing men.

RED LEADER: All wings report in.

INT. ANOTHER COCKPIT

One of the Rebel fighters checks in through his mike.

RED TEN: Red Ten standing by.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs checks his fighter's controls, alert and ready for combat.

RED SEVEN: (over Biggs' headset): Red Seven standing by.

BIGGS: Red Three standing by.

INT. PORKINS' COCKPIT

PORKINS: Red Six standing by.

RED NINE: (over headset): Red Nine standing by.

INT. WEDGE'S FIGHTER - COCKPIT

WEDGE: Red Two standing by.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

RED ELEVEN: (over headset): Red Eleven standing by.

LUKE: Red Five standing by.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo-Detoo, in position outside of the fighter, turns his head from side to side and makes beeping sounds.

INT. RED LEADER'S FIGHTER - COCKPIT

RED LEADER: Lock S-foils in attack position.

EXT. SPACE

The group of X-wing fighters move in formation toward the Death Star, unfolding the wings and locking them in the "X" position.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

READ LEADER: (over headset): We're passing through their magnetic field.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER: Hold tight!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts his controls as he concentrates on the approaching Death Star. The ship begins to be buffeted slightly.

RED LEADER: (over headset): Switch your deflectors on.

INT. ANOTHER COCKPIT

RED LEADER: (over headset): Double front!

EXT. SPACE

The fighters, now X-shaped darts, move in formation. The Death Star now appears to be a small moon growing rapidly in size as the Rebel fighters approach. Complex patterns on the metallic surface begin to become visible. A large dish antenna is built into the surface on one side.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge is amazed and slightly frightened at the awesome spectacle.

WEDGE: Look at the size of that thing!

RED LEADER: (over headset): Cut the chatter, Red Two.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER: Accelerate to attack speed. This is it, boys!

EXT. SPACE

As the fighters move closer to the Death Star, the awesome size of the gargantuan Imperial fortress is revealed. Half of the deadly space station is in shadow and this area sparkles with thousands of small lights running in thin lines and occasionally grouped in large clusters; somewhat like a city at night as seen from a weather satellite.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S COCKPIT

GOLD LEADER: Red Leader, this is Gold Leader.

RED LEADER: (over headset): I copy, Gold Leader.

GOLD LEADER: We're starting for the target shaft now.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks around at his wingmen; the Death Star looming in from behind. Two Y-wing fighters bob back and forth in the background. He moves his computer targeting device into position.

RED LEADER: We're in position. I'm going to cut across the axis and try and draw their fire.

EXT. SPACE

Two squads of Rebel fighters peel off. The X-wings dive towards the Death Star surface. A thousand lights glow across the dark grey expanse of the huge station.

INT. DEATH STAR

Alarm sirens scream as soldiers scramble to large turbo- powered laser gun emplacements. Electronic drivers rotate the huge guns into position as crew adjust their targeting devices.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Laserbolts streak through the star-filled night. The Rebel X wing fighters move in toward the Imperial base, as the Death Star aims its massive laser guns at the Rebel forces and fires.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia listens to the battle over the intercom. Threepio is at her side.

WEDGE: (over war room speaker system): Heavy fire, boss! Twenty-degrees.

RED LEADER: (over speaker): I see it. Stay low.

EXT. SPACE

An X-wing zooms across the surface of the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR

Technical crews scurry here and there loading last-minute armaments and unlocking power cables.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge maneuvers his fighter toward the menacing Death Star.

EXT. SPACE

X-wings continue in their attack course on the Death Star.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke nosedives radically, starting his attack on the monstrous fortress. The Death Star surface streaks past the cockpit window.

LUKE: This is Red Five; I'm going in!

EXT. SPACE

Luke's X-wing races toward the Death Star. Laserbolts streak from Luke's weapons, creating a huge fireball explosion on the dim surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Terror crosses Luke's face as he realizes he won't be able to pull out in time to avoid the fireball.

BIGGS: (over headset): Luke, pull up!

EXT. SURFACE OF DEATH STAR

Luke's ship emerges from the fireball, with the leading edges of his wings slightly scorched.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

BIGGS: Are you all right?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts his controls and breathes a sigh of relief. Flak bursts outside the cockpit window.

LUKE: I got a little cooked, but I'm okay.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters continue to strafe the Death Star's surface with laserbolts.

INT. DEATH STAR

Walls buckle and cave in. Troops and equipment are blown in all directions. Stormtroopers stagger out of the rubble. Standing in the middle of the chaos, a vision of calm and foreboding, is Darth Vader. One of his Astro-Officers rushes up to him.

ASTRO-OFFICER: We count thirty Rebel ships, Lord Vader. But they're so small they're evading our turbo-lasers!

VADER: We'll have to destroy them ship to ship. Get the crews to their fighters.

INT. DEATH STAR

Smoke belches from the giant laser guns as they wind up their turbine generators to create sufficient power. The crew rushes about preparing for another blast. Even the troopers head gear is not adequate to protect them from the overwhelming noise of the monstrous weapon. One troopers bangs his helmet with his hand in an attempt to stop the ringing.

INT. READ LEADER'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Red Leader flies through a heavy hail of flak.

RED LEADER: Luke, let me know when you're going in.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The Red Leader's X-wing flies past Luke as he puts his nose down and starts his attack dive.

LUKE: I'm on my way in now...

RED LEADER: Watch yourself! There's a lot of fire coming from the right side of that deflection tower.

LUKE: I'm on it.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke flings his X-wing into a twisting dive across the horizon and down onto the dim grey surface.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING TRAVELING

A shot hurls from Luke's guns. Laserbolts streak toward the onrushing Death Star surface. Several small radar emplacements erupt in flame. Laserfire erupts from a protruding tower on the surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The blurry Death Star surface races past the cockpit window as a big smile sweeps across Luke's face at the success of his run. Flak thunders on all sides of him.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The Death Star superstructure races past Luke as he maneuvers his craft through a wall of laserfire and peels away from the surface towards the heavens.

INT. DEATH STAR

The thunder and smoke of the big guns reverberate throughout the massive structure. Many soldiers rush about in the smoke and chaos, silhouetted by the almost continual flash of explosions.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs dives through a forest of radar domes, antennae, and gun towers as he shoots low across the Death Star surface. A dense barrage of laserfire streaks by on all sides.

INT. DEATH STAR

Imperial star pilots dash in unison to a line of small auxiliary hatches that lead to Imperial TIE fighters.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia, surrounded by her generals and aides, paces nervously before a lighted computer table. On all sides technicians work in front of many lighted glass walls. Dodonna watches quietly from one corner. One of the officers working over a screen speaks into his headset.

CONTROL OFFICER: Squad leaders, we've picked up a new group of signals. Enemy fighters coming your way.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Luke looks around to see if he can spot the approaching Imperial fighters.

LUKE: My scope's negative. I don't see anything.

INT. RED LEADER'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The Death Star's surface sweeps past as Red Leader searches the sky for the Imperial fighters. Flak pounds at his ship.

RED LEADER: Keep up your visual scanning. With all this jamming, they'll be on top of you before your scope can pick them up.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Silhouetted against the rim lights of the Death Star horizon, four ferocious Imperial TIE ships dive on the Rebel fighters. Two of the TIE fighters peel off and drop out of frame. Pan with the remaining two TIE ships.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs panics when he discovers a TIE ship on his tail. The horizon in the background twists around as he peels off, hoping to lose the Imperial fighter.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER: Biggs! You've picked one up... watch it!

BIGGS: I can't see it! Where is he?!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs zooms off the surface and into space, closely followed by an Imperial TIE fighter. The TIE ship fires several laserbolts at Biggs, but misses.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs see the TIE ship behind him and swings around, trying to avoid him.

BIGGS: He's on me tight, I can't shake him... I can't shake him.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs, flying at high altitude, peels off and dives toward the Death Star surface, but he is unable to lose the TIE fighter, who sticks close to his tail.

INT. X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Luke is flying upside down. He rotates his ship around to normal attitude as he comes out of his dive.

LUKE: Hang on, Biggs, I'm coming in.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs and the tailing TIE ship dive for the surface, now followed by a fast-gaining Luke. After Biggs dives out of sight, Luke chases the Imperial fighter.

EXT. SURFACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

In the foreground, the Imperial fighter races across the Death Star's surface, closely followed by Luke in the background.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

There is a shot from Luke's X-wing of the TIE ship exploding in a mass of flames.

LUKE: Got him!

INT. DEATH STAR

Darth Vader strides purposefully down a Death Star corridor, flanked by Imperial stormtroopers.

VADER: Several fighters have broken off from the main group. Come with me!

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

A concerned Princess Leia, Threepio, Dodonna, and other officers of the Rebellion stand around the huge round readout screen, listening to the ship-to-ship communication on the room's loudspeaker.

BIGGS: (over speaker): Pull in! Luke... pull in!

WEDGE: (over speaker): Watch your back, Luke!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

WEDGE: (over headset): Watch your back! Fighter's above you, coming in!

EXT. SPACE

Luke's ship soars away from the Death Star's surface as he spots the tailing TIE fighter.

INT. TIE FIGHTER'S COCKPIT

The TIE pilot takes aim at Luke's X-wing.

EXT. SPACE

The Imperial TIE fighter pilot scores a hit on Luke's ship. Fire breaks out on the right side of the X-wing.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks out of his cockpit at the flames on his ship.

LUKE: I'm hit, but not bad.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Smoke pours out from behind Artoo-Detoo.

LUKE'S VOICE: Artoo, see what you can do with it. Hang on back there.

Green laserfire moves past the beeping little robot as his head turns.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke nervously works his controls.

RED LEADER: (over headset): Red Six...

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

In the war room, Leia stands frozen as she listens and worries about Luke.

RED LEADER: (over speaker): Can you see Red Five?

RED TEN: (over speaker): There's a heavy fire zone on this side. Red Five, where are you?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke spots the TIE fighter behind him and soars away from the Death Star surface.

LUKE: I can't shake him!

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship soars closer to the surface of the Death Star, an Imperial TIE fighter closing in on him in hot pursuit.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

The Death Star whips below Wedge.

WEDGE: I'm on him, Luke!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

WEDGE: (over headset): Hold on!

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Wedge dives across the horizon toward Luke and the TIE fighter.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge moves his X-wing in rapidly.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke reacts frantically.

LUKE: Blast it! Wedge where are you?

INT. TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT

The fighter pilot watches Wedge's X-wing approach. Another X wing joins him, and both unleash a volley of laserfire on the Imperial fighter.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter explodes, filling the screen with white light. Luke's ship can be seen far in the distance.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks about in relief.

LUKE: Thanks, Wedge.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia, Threepio, Dodonna and other Rebel officers are listening to the Rebel Fighter's radio transmissions over the war room intercom.

BIGGS: (over speaker): Good shooting, Wedge!

GOLD LEADER: (over speaker): Red Leader...

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader peels off and starts toward the long trenches at the Death Star surface pole.

GOLD LEADER: This is Gold Leader. We're starting out attack run.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Y-wing fighters of the Gold group dive out of the stars toward the Death Star surface.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others are grouped around the screen, as technicians move about attending to their duties.

RED LEADER: (over speaker): I copy, Gold Leader. Move into position.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Imperial TIE ships in precise formation dive toward the Death Star surface.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars whip past in the window above his head.

VADER: Stay in attack formation!

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Technicians are seated at the computer readout table.

GOLD LEADER: (over speaker): The exhaust post is...

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

GOLD LEADER: ...marked and locked in!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Gold Leader approaches the surface and pulls out to skim the surface of the huge station. The ship moves into a deep trench, firing laserbolts. The surface streaks past as laserfire is returned by the Death Star.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Gold Five is a pilot in his early fifties with a very battered helmet that looks like it's been through many battles. He looks around to see if enemy ships are near. His fighter is buffeted by Imperial flak.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader races down the enormous trench that leads to the exhaust port. Laserbolts blast toward him in increasing numbers, occasionally exploding near the ship causing it to bounce about.

GOLD LEADER: Switch power to front deflector screens.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three Y-wing skim the Death Star surface deep in the trench, as laserbolts streak past on all sides.

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

An exterior surface gun blazes away at the oncoming Rebel fighters.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

GOLD LEADER: How many guns do you think, Gold Five.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

GOLD FIVE: (over speaker): I'd say about twenty guns. Some on the surface, some on the towers.

Leia, Threepio, and the technicians view the projected target screen, as red and blue target lights glow. The red target near the center blinks on and off.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE: (over speaker): Death Star will be in range in five minutes.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three Y-wing fighters race toward camera and zoom overhead through a hail of laserfire.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader pulls his computer targeting device down in front of his eye. Laserbolts continue to batter the Rebel craft.

GOLD LEADER: Switching to targeting computer.

INT. GOLD TWO'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Two, a younger pilot about Luke's age, pulls down his targeting eye viewer and adjusts it. His ship shudders under intense laser barrage.

GOLD TWO: Computer's locked. Getting a signal.

As the fighters begin to approach the target area, suddenly all the laserfire stops. An eerie clam clings over the trench as the surface whips past in a blur.

GOLD TWO: The guns... they've stopped!

EXT. GOLD FIVE'S COCKPIT

Gold Five looks behind him.

GOLD FIVE: Stabilize your read deflectors. Watch for enemy fighters.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

GOLD LEADER: They've coming in! Three marks at two ten.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Imperial TIE ships, Darth Vader in the center flanked by two wingmen, dive in precise formation almost vertically toward the Death Star surface.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars zoom by.

VADER: I'll take them myself! Cover me!

WINGMAN'S VOICE: (over speaker): Yes, sir.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters zoom across the surface of the Death Star.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader lines up Gold Two in his targeting computer. Vader's hands grip the control stick as he presses the button.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The cockpit explodes around Gold Two. His head falls forward.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

As Gold Two's ship explodes, debris is flung out into space.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader looks over his shoulder at the scene.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The three TIE fighters race along in the trench in a tight formation.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader panics.

GOLD LEADER: (into mike): I can't maneuver!

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Five, the old veteran, trys to calm Gold Leader.

GOLD FIVE: Stay on target.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The Death Star races by outside the cockpit window as he adjusts his targeting device.

GOLD LEADER: We're too close.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The older pilot remains calm.

GOLD FIVE: Stay on target!

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Now he's really panicked.

GOLD LEADER: Loosen up!

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader calmly adjusts his targeting computer and pushes the fire button.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader's ship is hit by Vader's laser.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Gold Leader explodes in a ball of flames, throwing debris in all directions.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Five moves in on the exhaust port.

GOLD FIVE: Gold Five to Red Leader...

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks over his shoulder at the action outside of his cockpit.

GOLD FIVE: (over headset): Lost Tiree, lost Dutch.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER: I copy, Gold Five.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

GOLD FIVE: They came from behind...

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

One of the engines explodes on Gold Five's Y-wing fighter, blazing out of control. He dives past the horizon toward the Death Star's surface, passing a TIE fighter during his descent. Gold Five, a veteran of countless campaigns, spins toward his death.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks nervously about him at the explosive battle.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grant Moff Tarkin and a Chief Officer stand in the Death Star's control room.

OFFICER: We've analyzed their attack, sir, and there is a danger. Should I have your ship standing by?

TARKIN: Evacuate? In out moment of triumph? I think you overestimate their chances!

Tarkin turns to the computer readout screen. Flames move around the green disk at the center of the screen, as numbers read across the bottom.

VOICE: (over speaker): Rebel base, three minutes and closing.

INT. READ LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks over at his wingmen.

RED LEADER: Red Group, this is Red Leader.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Dodonna moves to the intercom as he fiddles with the computer keys.

RED LEADER: (over speaker): Rendezvous at mark six point one.

WEDGE: (over speaker): This is Red Two. Flying toward you.

BIGGS: (over speaker): Red Three, standing by.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

DODONNA: (over headset): Red Leader, this is Base One. Keep half your group out of range for the next run.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

RED LEADER'S VOICE: (over headset): Copy, Base One. Luke, take Red Two and Three. Hold up here and wait for my signal... to start your run.

Luke nods his head.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The X-wing fighters of Luke, Biggs, and Wedge fly in formation high above the Death Star's surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke peers out from his cockpit.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Two X-wings move across the surface of the Death Star. Red Leader's X-wing drops down to the surface leading to the exhaust port.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks around to watch for the TIE fighters. He begins to perspire.

RED LEADER: This is it!

EXT. SPACE

Red Leader roams down the trench of the Death Star as lasers streak across the black heavens.

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

A huge remote-control laser cannon fires at the approaching Rebel fighters.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The Rebel fighters evade the Imperial laser blasts.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten looks around for the Imperial fighters.

RED TEN: We should be able to see it by now.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

From the cockpits of the Rebel pilots, the surface of the Death Star streaks by, with Imperial laserfire shooting toward them.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER: Keep your eyes open for those fighters!

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

RED TEN: There's too much interference!

EXT. SPACE - DEATH STAR TRENCH

Three X-wing fighters move in formation down the Death Star trench.

RED TEN'S VOICE: Red Five, can you see them from where you are?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks down at the Death Star surface below.

LUKE: No sign of any... wait!

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten looks up and sees the Imperial fighters.

LUKE: (over headset): Coming in point three five.

RED TEN: I see them.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters, Vader flanked by two wingmen, dive in a tight formation. The sun reflects off their dominate solar fins as they loop toward the Death Star's surface.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader pulls his targeting device in front of his eyes and makes several adjustments.

RED LEADER: I'm in range.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Red Leader's X-wing moves up the Death Star trench.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER: Target's coming up!

Red Leader looks at his computer target readout screen. He then looks into his targeting device.

RED LEADER: Just hold them off for a few seconds.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control lever and dives on the X-wing fighters.

VADER: Close up formation.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The three TIE fighters move in formation across the Death Star surface.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader lines up his target on the targeting device cross hairs.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen zoom down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader rapidly approaches the two X-wings of Red Ten and Red Twelve. Vader's laser cannon flashes below the view of the front porthole. the X-wings show in the center of Vader's computer screen.

EXT. SPACE

Red Twelve's X-wing fighter is hit by Vader's laserfire, and it explodes into flames against the trench.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten works at his controls furiously, trying to avoid Vader's fighter behind him.

RED TEN: You'd better let her loose.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader is concentrating on his targeting device.

RED LEADER: Almost there!

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

Red Ten panics.

RED TEN: I can't hold them!

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen whip through the trench in pursuit of the Rebel fighters.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader cooly pushes the fire button on his control stick.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader's well-aimed laserfire proves to be unavoidable, and strikes Red Ten's ship. Red Ten screams in anguish and pain.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Red Ten's ship explodes and bursts into flames.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Grimly, Red Leader takes careful aim and watches his computer targeting device, which shows the target lined up in the cross hairs, and fires.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER: It's away!

INT. DEATH STAR

An armed Imperial stormtrooper is knocked to the floor from the attack explosion. Other troopers scurrying about the corridors are knocked against the wall and lose their balance.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare at the computer screen.

RED NINE'S VOICE: (over speaker): It's a hit!

RED LEADER: (over speaker): Negative.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks back at the receding Death Star. Tiny explosions are visible in the distance.

RED LEADER: Negative! It didn't go in. It just impacted on the surface.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR - TIE FIGHTER

Darth Vader peels off in pursuit as Red Leader's X-wing passes the Death Star horizon.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader swings his ship around for the next kill.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

LUKE: (over headset): Red Leader, we're right above you. Turn to point...

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke tries to spot Red Leader. He looks down at the Death Star surface.

LUKE: ...oh-five; we'll cover for you.

RED LEADER: (over headset): Stay there...

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

A wary Red Leader looks about nervously.

RED LEADER: ...I just lost my starboard engine.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks excitedly toward Red Leader's X-wing.

RED LEADER: (over headset): Get set to make your attack run.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's gloved hands make contact with the control sticks, and he presses their firing buttons.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader fights to gain control of his ship.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Laserbolts are flung from Vader's TIE fighter, connecting with Red Leader's Rebel X-wing fighter. Red Leader buys it, creating a tremendous explosion far below. He screams and is destroyed.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks out the window of his X-wing at the explosion far below. For the first time, he feels the helplessness of his situation.

INT. DEATH STAR

Grand Moff Tarkin casts a sinister eye at the computer screen.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Rebel base, one minute and closing.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Dodonna and Princess Leia, with Threepio beside them, listen intently to the talk between the pilots. The room is grim after Red Leader's death. Princess Leia nervously paces the room.

LUKE: (over speaker): Biggs, Wedge, let's close it up. We're going in. We're going in full throttle.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

The horizon twists as Wedge begins to pull out.

WEDGE: Right with you, boss.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The two X-wings peel off against a background of stars and dive toward the Death Star.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

BIGGS: Luke, at that speed will you be able to pull out in time?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

LUKE: It'll be just like Beggar's Canyon back home.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The three X-wings move in, unleashing a barrage of laserfire. Laserbolts are returned from the Death Star.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Luke's lifelong friend struggles with his controls.

BIGGS: We'll stay back far enough to cover you.

INT. LUKE'S COCKPIT

Flak and laserbolts flash outside Luke's cockpit window.

WEDGE: (over headset): My scope shows the tower, but I can't see the exhaust port! Are you sure the computer can hit it?

EXT. DEATH STAR - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

The Death Star laser cannon slowly rotates as it shoots laserbolts.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks around for the Imperial TIE fighters. He thinks for a moment and then moves his targeting device into position.

LUKE: Watch yourself! Increase speed full throttle!

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge looks excitedly about for any sign of the TIE fighters.

WEDGE: What about the tower?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

LUKE: You worry about those fighters! I'll worry about the tower!

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE

Luke's X-wing streaks through the trench, firing lasers.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke breaks into a nervous sweat as the laserfire is returned, knicking one of his wings close to the engine.

LUKE: (to Artoo): Artoo... that, that stabilizer's broken loose again! See if you can't lock it down!

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo works to repair the damages. The canyon wall rushes by in the background, making his delicate task seem even more precarious.

EXT. DEATH STAR

Two laser cannons are firing on the Rebel fighters.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge looks up and sees the TIE ships.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke's targeting device marks off the distance to the target.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen zoom closer.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his controls and fires laserbolts at two X wings flying down the trench. He scores a direct hit on Wedge.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others are grouped around the computer board.

WEDGE: (over speaker): I'm hit! I can't stay with you.

LUKE: (over speaker): Get clear, Wedge.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

LUKE: You can't do any more good back there!

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

WEDGE: Sorry!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Wedge pulls his crippled X-wing back away from the battle.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader watches the escape but issues a command to his wingmen.

VADER: Let him go! Stay on the leader!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Luke's X-wing speeds down the trench; the three TIE fighters, still in perfect unbroken formation, tail close behind.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters. He is worried.

BIGGS: Hurry, Luke, they're coming in much faster this time. I can't hold them!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters move ever closer, closing in on Luke and Biggs.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks back anxiously at little Artoo.

LUKE: Artoo, try and increase the power!

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Ignoring the bumpy ride, flak, and lasers, a beeping Artoo Detoo struggles to increase the power, his dome turning from side to side.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Stealthily, the TIE formation creeps closer.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control stick.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Luke looks into his targeting device. He moves it away for a moment and ponders its use. He looks back into the computer targeter.

BIGGS: (over headset): Hurry up, Luke!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen race through the Death Star trench. Biggs moves in to cover for Luke, but Vader gains on him.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs sees the TIE fighter aiming at him.

BIGGS: Wait!

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader squeezes the fire button on his controls.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs' cockpit explodes around him, lighting him in red.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Biggs' ship bursts into a million flaming bits and scatters across the surface.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare at the computer board.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING COCKPIT

Luke is stunned by Biggs' death. His eyes are watering, but his anger is also growing.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grand Moff Tarkin watches the projected target screen with satisfaction.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Rebel base, thirty seconds and closing.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader takes aim on Luke and talks to the wingmen.

VADER: I'm on the leader.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR - LUKE'S SHIP

Luke's ship streaks through the trench of the Death Star.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia returns her general's worried and doubtful glances with solid, grim determination. Threepio seems nervous.

THREEPIO: Hang on, Artoo!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke concentrates on his targeting device.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters charge away down the trench toward Luke.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's finger's curls around the control stick.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts the lens of his targeting device.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship charges down the trench.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke lines up the yellow cross-hair lines of the targeting device's screen. He looks into the targeting device, then starts at a voice he hears.

BEN'S VOICE: Use the Force, Luke.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The Death Star trench zooms by.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks up, then starts to look back into the targeting device. He has second thoughts.

BEN'S VOICE: Let go, Luke.

A grim determination sweeps across Luke's face as he closes his eyes and starts to mumble Ben's training to himself.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's fighter streaks through the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

VADER: The Force is strong with this one!

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader follows Luke's X-wing down the trench.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks to the targeting device, then away as he hears Ben's voice.

BEN'S VOICE: Luke, trust me.

Luke's hand reaches for the control panel and presses the button. The targeting device moves away.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stand watching the projected screen.

BASE VOICE: (over speaker): His computer's off. Luke, you switched off your targeting computer. What's wrong?

LUKE: (over speaker): Nothing. I'm all right.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship streaks ever close to the exhaust port.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks at the Death Star surface streaking by.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo-Detoo turns his head from side to side, beeping in anticipation.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters, manned by Vader and his two wingmen, follow Luke's X-wing down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader maneuvers his controls as he looks at his doomed target. He presses the fire buttons on his control sticks. Laserfire shoots toward Luke's X-wing fighter.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

A large burst of Vader's laserfire engulfs Artoo. The arms go limp on the smoking little droid as he makes a high-pitched sound.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks frantically back over his shoulder at Artoo.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Smoke billows out around little Artoo and sparks begin to fly.

LUKE: I've lost Artoo!

Artoo's beeping sounds die out.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare intently at the projected screen, while Threepio watches the Princess. Lights representing the Death Star and targets glow brightly.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE: The Death Star has cleared the planet. The Death Star has cleared the planet.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Tarkin glares at the projected target screen.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Rebel base, in range.

TARKIN: You may fire when ready.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Commence primary ignition.

An officer reaches up and pushes buttons on the control panel, as green lighted buttons turn to red.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters zoom down the Death Star trench in pursuit of Luke, never breaking formation.

INT. LUKE'S COCKPIT

Luke looks anxiously at the exhaust port.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control sticks, checking his projected targeting screen.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship barrels down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's targeting computer swings around into position. Vader takes careful aim on Luke's X-wing fighter.

VADER: I have you now.

He pushes the fire buttons.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters move in on Luke. As Vader's center fighter unleashes a volley of laserfire, one of the TIE ships at his side is hit and explodes into flame. The two remaining ships continue to move in.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks about, wondering whose laserfire destroyed Vader's wingman.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader is taken by surprise, and looks out from his cockpit.

VADER: What?

INT. DARTH VADER'S WINGMAN - COCKPIT

Vader's wingman searches around him trying to locate the unknown attacker.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han and Chewbacca grin from ear to ear.

HAN: (yelling): Yahoo!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon heads right at the two TIE fighters. It's a collision course.

INT. WINGMAN'S COCKPIT

The wingman spots the pirateship coming at him and warns the Dark Lord.

WINGMAN: Look out!

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

Vader's wingman panics at the sight of the oncoming pirate starship and veers radically to one side, colliding with Vader's TIE fighter in the process. Vader's wingman crashes into the side wall of the trench and explodes. Vader's damaged ship spins out of the trench with a damaged wing.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader's ship spins out of control with a bent solar fin, heading for deep space.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader turns round and round in circles as his ship spins into space.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Solo's ship moves in toward the Death Star trench.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Solo, smiling, speaks to Luke over his headset mike.

HAN: (into mike): You're all clear, kid.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others listen to Solo's transmission.

HAN: (over speaker): Now let's blow this thing and go home!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks up and smiles. He concentrates on the exhaust port, then fires his laser torpedoes.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's torpedoes shoot toward the port and seems to simply disappear into the surface and not explode. But the shots do find their mark and have gone into the exhaust port and are heading for the main reactor.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke throws his head back in relief.

INT. DEATH STAR

An Imperial soldier runs to the control panel board and pulls the attack lever as the board behind him lights up.

INTERCOM VOICE: Stand by to fire at Rebel base.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Two X-wings, a Y-wing, and the pirateship race toward Yavin in the distance.

INT. DEATH STAR

Several Imperial soldiers, flanking a pensive Grand Moff Tarkin, busily push control levers and buttons.

INTERCOM VOICE: Standing by.

The rumble of a distant explosion begins.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The Rebel ships race out of sight, leaving the moon-like Death Star alone against a blanket of stars. Several small flashes appear on the surface. The Death Star bursts into a supernova, creating a spectacular heavenly display.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

HAN: Great shot, kid. That was one in a million.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke is at ease, and his eyes are closed.

BEN'S VOICE: Remember, the Force will be with you... always.

The ship rocks back and forth.

EXT. DARTH VADER'S TIE FIGHTER

Vader's ship spins off into space.

EXT. SPACE

The Rebel ships race toward the fourth moon of Yavin.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR

Luke climbs out of his starship fighter and is cheered by a throng of ground crew and pilots. Luke climbs down the ladder as they all welcome him with laughter, cheers, and shouting. Princess Leia rushes toward him.

LEIA: Luke! Luke! Luke!

She throws her arms around Luke and hugs him as they dance around in a circle. Solo runs in toward Luke and they embrace one another, slapping each other on the back.

HAN: (laughing): Hey! Hey!

LUKE: (laughing): I knew you'd come back! I just knew it!

HAN: Well, I wasn't gonna let you get all the credit and take all the reward.

Luke and Han look at one another, as Solo playfully shoves at Luke's face. Leia moves in between them.

LEIA: (laughing): Hey, I knew there was more to you than money.

Luke looks toward the ship.

LUKE: Oh, no!

The fried little Artoo-Detoo is lifted off the back of the fighter and carried off under the worried eyes of Threepio.

THREEPIO: Oh, my! Artoo! Can you hear me? Say something!: (to mechanic): You can repair him, can't you?

TECHNICIAN: We'll get to work on him right away.

THREEPIO: You must repair him! Sir, if any of my circuits or gears will help, I'll gladly donate them.

LUKE: He'll be all right.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN THRONE ROOM

Luke, Han, and Chewbacca enter the huge ruins of the main temple. Hundreds of troops are lined up in neat rows. Banners are flying and at the far end stands a vision in white, the beautiful young Senator Leia. Luke and the others solemnly march up the long aisle and kneel before Senator Leia. From one side of the temple marches a shined-up and fully repaired Artoo-Detoo. He waddles up to the group and stands next to an equally pristine Threepio, who is rather awestruck by the whole event. Chewbacca is confused. Dodonna and several other dignitaries sit on the left of the Princess Leia. Leia is dressed in a long white dress and is staggeringly beautiful. She rises and places a gold medallion around Han's neck. He winks at her. She then repeats the ceremony with Luke, who is moved by the event. They turn and face the assembled troops, who all bow before them. Chewbacca growls and Artoo beeps with happiness.

FADE OUT:

END CREDITS OVER STARS

THE END

THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK

EXT. GALAXY - PLANET HOTH

A Star Destroyer moves through space, releasing Imperial probe robots from its underside.
One of these probes zooms toward the planet Hoth and lands on its ice-covered surface. An explosion marks the point ofimpact. 

EXT. HOTH - METEORITE CRATER - SNOW PLAIN - DAY

A weird mechanical sound rises above the whining of the wind. A strange probe robot, with several extended sensors, emerges from the smoke-shrouded crater. The ominous mechanical probe floats across the snow plain and disappears into the distance.

EXT. PLAIN OF HOTH - DAY

A small figure gallops across the windswept ice slope. The bundled rider is mounted on a large gray snow lizard, a Tauntaun. Curving plumes of snow rise from beneath the speeding paws of the two-legged beast.

The rider gallops up a slope and reins his lizard to a stop. Pulling off his protective goggles, Luke Skywalker notices something in the sky. He takes a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt and through them sees smoke rising from where the probe robot has crashed.

The wind whips at Luke's fur-lined cap and he activates a comlink transmitter. His Tauntaun shifts and moans nervously beneath him.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Echo Three to Echo Seven. Han, old buddy, do you read me?

After a little static a familiar voice is heard.

HAN: (over comlink)
Loud and clear, kid. What's up?

LUKE: (into comlink)
Well, I finished my circle. I don't pick up any life readings.

HAN: (over comlink)
There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser. The sensors are placed, I'm going back.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Right. I'll see you shortly. There's a meteorite that hit the ground near here. I want to check it out. It won't take long.

Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his nervous lizard. He pats the beast on the head to calm it.

LUKE: Hey, steady girl. What's the matter? You smell something?

Luke takes a small device from his belt and starts to adjust it when suddenly a large shadow falls over him from behind. He hears a monstrous howl and turns to see an eleven-foot-tall shape towering over him. It is a Wampa Ice Creature, lunging at him ferociously.

LUKE: Aaargh!

Luke grabs for his pistol, but is hit flat in the face by a huge white claw. He falls unconscious into the snow and in a moment the terrified screams of the Tauntaun are cut short by the horrible snap of a neck being broken.

The Wampa Ice Creature grabs Luke by one ankle and drags him away across the frozen plain.

EXT. HOTH - REBEL BASE ENTRANCE - DAY

A stalwart figure rides his Tauntaun up to the entrance of an enormous ice cave.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Rebel troopers rush about unloading supplies and otherwise securing their new base. The rider, Han Solo, swings off his lizard and pulls off his goggles.

He walks into the main hangar deck toward the Millennium Falcon, which is parked among several fighters. Mechanics, R2 units, and various other droids hurry about. Han stops at the Millennium Falcon where his Wookiee copilot, Chewbacca, is welding on a central lifter. Chewie stops his work and lifts his face shield, growling an irritated greeting to his boss.

HAN: Chewie!

The Wookiee grumbles a reply.

HAN: All right, don't lose your temper.
I'll come right back and give you a hand.

Chewbacca puts his mask back on and returns to his welding as Han leaves.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

A makeshift command center has been set up in a blasted area of thick ice. The low-ceilinged room is a beehive of activity. Controllers, troops, and droids move about setting up electronic equipment and monitoring radar signals.

General Rieekan straightens up from a console at Han's approach.

RIEEKAN: Solo?

HAN: No sign of life out there, General.
The sensors are in place. You'll know if anything comes around.

RIEEKAN: Commander Skywalker reported in yet?

HAN: No. He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him.

RIEEKAN: (indicates radar screen)
With all the meteor activity in this system, it's going to be difficult to spot approaching ships.

Taking a deep breath, Han blurts out what is on his mind.

HAN: General, I've got to leave. I can't stay anymore.

Princess Leia, standing at a console nearby, is dressed in a short white combat jacket and pants. Her hair is braided across her head in a Nordic fashion. She overhears their conversation and seems somewhat distressed.

RIEEKAN: I'm sorry to hear that.

HAN: Well, there's a price on my head.
If I don't pay off Jabba the Hut, I'm a dead man.

RIEEKAN: A death mark's not an easy thing to live with. You're a good fighter, Solo. I hate to lose you.

HAN: Thank you, General.

He turns to Leia as Rieekan moves away.

HAN: (with feeling)
Well, Your Highness, I guess this is it.

LEIA: That's right.

Leia is angry. Han sees she has no warmth to offer him. He shakes his head and adopts a sarcastic tone.

HAN: (cooly)
Well, don't get all mushy on me.
So long, Princess.

Han walks away into the quiet corridor adjoining the command center. Leia stews a moment, then hurries after him.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

LEIA: Han!

Han stops in the corridor and turns to face Leia.

HAN: Yes, Your Highnessness?

LEIA: I thought you decided to stay.

HAN: Well, the bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my mind. 
LEIA: Han, we need you!

HAN: We?

LEIA: Yes.

HAN: Oh, what about you need?

LEIA: (mystified)
I need? I don't know what you're talking about.

HAN: (shakes his head, fed up) You probably don't.

LEIA: And what precisely am I supposed to know?

HAN: Come on! You want me to stay because of the way you feel about me.

LEIA: Yes. You're a great help to us.
You're a natural leader...

HAN: No! That's not it. Come on. Aahhh - uh huh! Come on.

Leia stares at him, understanding, then laughs.

LEIA: You're imagining things.

HAN: Am I? Then why are you following me? Afraid I was going to leave without giving you a goodbye kiss?

LEIA: I'd just as soon kiss a Wookiee.

HAN: I can arrange that. You could use a good kiss!

Angrily, Han strides down the corridor as Leia stares after him.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ANOTHER ICE CORRIDOR

A familiar stream of beeps and whistles herald the approach of Artoo Detoo and See-Threepio, who appear around a corner and move along an ice wall toward the main hangar.

THREEPIO: Don't try to blame me. I didn't ask you to turn on the thermal heater. I merely commented that it was freezing in the princess' chamber. But it's supposed to be freezing. How are we going to dry out all her clothes? I really don't know.

Artoo beeps a stream of protesting whistles.

THREEPIO: Oh, switch off.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

The two robots stop at Han Solo's space freighter. Han and Chewie are struggling with their central lifters.

HAN: (to Chewie)
Why do you take this apart now? I'm trying to get us out of here and you pull both of these.

Chewie grumbles in irritation.

THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir.

HAN: (to Chewie)
Put them back together right now.

THREEPIO: Might I have a word with you, please?

HAN: What do you want?

THREEPIO: Well, it's Princess Leia, sir.
She's been trying to get you on the communicator.

HAN: I turned it off. I don't want to talk to her.

THREEPIO: Oh. Well, Princess Leia is wondering about Master Luke. He hasn't come back yet. She doesn't know where he is.

HAN: I don't know where he is.

THREEPIO: Nobody knows where he is.

HAN: What do you mean, "nobody knows"?

Han glances at the fading light at the entrance of the ice cave as night slowly begins to fall on the planet.

THREEPIO: Well, uh, you see...

Han jumps down off the lift, as Threepio follows him.

HAN: Deck Officer. Deck Officer!

THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir. Might I inqu...

Han abruptly puts his hand over Threepio's mouth as the deck officer approaches.

DECK OFFICER: Yes, sir?

HAN: Do you know where Commander Skywalker is?

DECK OFFICER: I haven't seen him. It's possible he came in through the south entrance.

HAN: It's possible? Why don't you go find out? It's getting dark out there.

DECK OFFICER: Yes, sir.

The deck officer leaves hurriedly, as Han takes his hand off Threepio's mouth.

THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir. Might I inquire what's going on?

HAN: Why not?

THREEPIO: Impossible man. Come along, Artoo, let's find Princess Leia. Between ourselves, I think Master Luke is in considerable danger.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN ICE TUNNEL

The deck officer and his assistant hurry toward Han as he enters the tunnel.

DECK OFFICER: Sir, Commander Skywalker hasn't come in through the south entrance.
He might have forgotten to check in.

HAN: Not likely. Are the speeders ready?

DECK OFFICER: Not yet. We're having some trouble adapting them to the cold.

HAN: Then we'll have to go out on Tauntauns.

DECK OFFICER: Sir, the temperature's dropping too rapidly.

HAN: That's right. And my friends out in it.

ASSISTANT OFFICER: I'll cover sector twelve. Have com-control set screen alpha.

Han pushes through the troops and mounts a Tauntaun.

DECK OFFICER: Your Tauntaun'll freeze before you reach the first marker.

HAN: Then I'll see you in hell!

Han maneuvers his mount out of the cave and races into the dark bitter night.

EXT. HOTH - ICE GORGE - DUSK

The jagged face of a huge ice wall sits gloomily in the dim twilight of a Hoth day. Luke hangs upside down, ankles frozen into icy stalactites, his extended arms within a foot of the snow floor. One side of his face is covered in a dried mask of frozen blood. He opens his eyes as a chilling moan of the hideous ice creature echoes off the gorge walls. Luke pulls himself up, grabs hold of his ankles, and futilely tries to unfasten the throngs.

Exhausted, he drops back into his hanging position. As he hangs there, he spies his lightsaber lying near a pile of his discarded gear, about three feet out of reach.

He focuses on the saber and, as his hand strains toward the weapon, he squeezes his eyes tight in concentration.

Just as the ice creature looms over Luke, the lightsaber jumps into Luke's hand.

The young warrior instantly ignites his sword, swinging up, and cuts himself loose from the ice. He flops to the snow in a heap. The startled creature moves back, his giant yellow eyes blinking. Luke scrambles to his feet. He swings his lightsaber and the beast screams in pain.

EXT. HOTH - ENTRANCE TO ICE GORGE - DUSK

Luke staggers out of the gorge into the dark and snowy twilight. Weak and exhausted, he stumbles down a snow bank.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DUSK

A small, lone figure riding a Tauntaun races through the hostile vastness of snow and cold. As it runs, the Tauntaun's legs kick up large clouds of snow and ice into the snowy air.

EXT. HOTH - OUTSIDE ICE HANGAR - DUSK

Artoo stands in the falling snow, beeping worriedly. Threepio moves stiffly over to him.

THREEPIO: You must come along now, Artoo. There's really nothing more we can do. And my joints are freezing up.

Artoo beeps, long and low.

THREEPIO: Don't say thing like that! Of course we'll see Master Luke again.
He'll be quite all right, you'll see.
(to himself)
Stupid little short-circuit. He'll be quite all right.

Threepio turns to go back inside the main hangar as Artoo mournfully keeps his vigil.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

The wind is blowing quite strong now. Luke struggles to stay upright, but a blast of freezing snow knocks him over. He struggles to get up, but he can't. The young warrior from Tatooine drags himself a couple of feet and then collapses.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Princess Leia stands inside the dark entrance to the Rebel base, waiting for a sign of the two Rebel heroes. She shivers in the cold wind as, nearby, Chewie sits with his head in his hands. In the background, Artoo and Threepio move through the doors. 
A Rebel lieutenant moves to Major Derlin, an officer keeping watch with the princess.

LIEUTENANT: Sir, all the patrols are in.
There's still no contact from Skywalker or Solo.

THREEPIO: Mistress Leia, Artoo says he's been quite unable to pick up any signals, although he does admit that his own range is far too weak to abandon all hope.

Leia nods an acknowledgment, but she is lost in thought.

DERLIN: Your Highness, there's nothing more we can do tonight. The shield doors must be closed.

He turns to the lieutenant.

DERLIN: Close the doors.

LIEUTENANT: Yes, sir.

The lieutenant walks away. Chewie lets out a long, mournful howl, somewhat like a coyote. At the same moment, Artoo begins a complex series of efficient beeps.

THREEPIO: Artoo says the chances of survival are seven hundred seventy-five...
to one.

Leia stands praying to herself as the huge metal doors slam across the entrance of the ice cave. The loud booms echo throughout the huge cavern. Chewie lets out another suffering howl.

THREEPIO: Actually, Artoo has been known to make mistakes... from time to time.
Oh, dear, oh, dear. Don't worry about Master Luke. I'm sure he'll be all right. He's quite clever, you know... for a human being.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

Luke lies face down in the snow, nearly unconscious. Slowly he looks up and sees Ben Kenobi, barely visible through the blowing snow. It is hard to tell if Kenobi is real or a hallucination.

BEN: Luke... Luke.

LUKE: (weakly)
Ben?

BEN: You will go to the Dagobah system.

LUKE: Dagobah system?

BEN: There you will learn from Yoda, the Jedi Master who instructed me.

The image of Ben fades, revealing a lone Tauntaun rider approaching from the windswept horizon.

LUKE: (groaning faintly)
Ben... Ben.

Luke drops into unconsciousness.

Han pulls up and leaps off his mount. He hurries to his snow-covered friend, cradling him in his arms. Han's Tauntaun lets out a low, pitiful bellow. But Han's concern is with Luke, and he shakes him urgently.

HAN: Luke! Luke! Don't do this, Luke. Come on, give me a sign here.

Luke doesn't respond. Han begins frantically rubbing and slapping Luke's unconscious face. As he starts to lift the youth, Han hears a rasping sound behind him. He turns, just in time to see his Tauntaun stagger and then fall over into the snow.

Han carries Luke to the moaning beast. Then, with a final groan, the Tauntaun expires.

HAN Not much time.

He pushes Luke's inert form against the belly of the dead beast.

LUKE: (moaning)
Ben... Ben...

HAN: Hang on, kid.

LUKE: Dagobah system...

Han ignites Luke's saber and cuts the beast from head to toe. He quickly tosses it's steaming innards into the snow, then lifts Luke's inert form and stuffs him inside the carcass.

HAN: (reeling from the odor) Whew...

LUKE: Dagobah...

HAN: This may smell bad, kid...

LUKE: (moaning)
Yoda...

HAN: ...but it will keep you warm... til I get the shelter built.
(struggling to get Luke inside the carcass) Ooh... I thought they smelled bad on the outside!

The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to move. Han removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking out a shelter container. He begins to set up what can only be a pitiful protection against a bitter Hoth night.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAWN

Four snub-nosed armored snowspeeders race across the white landscape.

INT. SNOWSPEEDER COCKPIT

There is only one pilot, Zev, in the enclosed two-man craft. He concentrates on the scopes which ring his cockpit. He hears a low beep from one of his monitors.

ZEV: (into transmitter) Echo Base... I've got something! Not much, but it could be a life form.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT

The small craft banks and makes a slow arc, then races off in a new direction.

INT. SNOWSPEEDER - COCKPIT

The pilot switches over to a new transmitter.

ZEV: (into transmitter)
This is Rogue Two. this is Rogue Two. Captain Solo, so you copy? Commander Skywalker, do you copy? This is Rogue Two.

There is a sharp crackle of static, then a faint voice.

HAN: (filtered over Zev's receiver)
Good morning. Nice of you guys to drop by.

ZEV: (switching transmitters) Echo Base... this is Rogue Two. I found them. Repeat, I found them.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAY

The small shelter Han set up is covered with snow on the windward side. A makeshift antenna rests gingerly on top the snowdrift. Han spots Zev's snowspeeder approaching in the distance, and begins waving his arms frantically at the tiny craft.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER

Strange robot surgeons adjust a mass of electronic equipment. A switch is thrown and a sudden blinding flash obscures Luke in a bacta tank filled with a thick, gelatinous slime. He begins to thrash about, raving in delirium.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER - RECOVERY ROOM

Luke sits up in a recovery-room bed, weak but smiling. His face shows terrible wounds from the Wampa's attack. Threepio and Artoo enter the room.

THREEPIO: Master Luke, sir, it's so good to see you fully functional again.

Artoo beeps his good wishes.

THREEPIO: Artoo expresses his relief, also.

Han and Chewie make their entrance. The Wookiee growls a greeting.

HAN: How are you feeling, kid? You don't look so bad to me. In fact, you look strong enough to pull the ears off a Gundark.

LUKE: Thanks to you.

HAN: That's two you owe me, junior.

Han turns as Leia enters the room. He looks at her with a big, devilish grin.

HAN: Well your Worship, looks like you managed to keep me around for a little while longer.

LEIA: (haughtily)
I had nothing to do with it. General Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until we've activated the energy shield.

HAN: That's a good story. I think you just can't bear to let a gorgeous guy like me out of your sight.

LEIA: I don't know where you get your delusions, laser brain.

Chewie is amused; he laughs in his manner. Han, enjoying himself, regards Chewie good-humoredly.

HAN: Laugh it up, fuzzball. But you didn't see us alone in the south passage.

Luke sparks to this; he looks at Leia.

HAN: She expressed her true feelings for me.

Leia is flushed, eyes darting between Luke and Han.

LEIA: My...! Why, you stuck up,... half witted... scruffy-looking ...nerf herder!

HAN: Who's scruffy-looking? (to Luke) I must have hit pretty close to the mark to get her all riled up like that, huh, kid?

Leia looks vulnerable for a moment, then the mask falls again, and she focuses on Luke.

LEIA: Why, I guess you don't know everything about women yet?

With that she leans over and kisses Luke on the lips. Then she turns on her heel and walks out, leaving everyone in the room slightly dumbstruck. With some smugness, Luke puts his hands behind his head and grins.

Suddenly, in the distance, the muffled sound of an alarm is heard.

ANNOUNCER: (over loudspeaker)
Headquarters personnel, report to command center.

The voice repeats the order and Han, Chewie, Artoo, and Threepio hurry out of the room, bidding farewell to Luke.

HAN: Take it easy.

THREEPIO: Excuse us, please.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Rieekan looks up grimly from a console screen. He calls over to Leia and Han.

RIEEKAN: Princess... we have a visitor.

The group hurries over to Rieekan.

RIEEKAN: We've picked up something outside the base in zone twelve, moving east.

SENIOR CONTROLLER: It's metal.

LEIA: Then it couldn't be one of those creatures that attacked Luke.

HAN: It could be a speeder, one of ours.

SENIOR CONTROLLER: No. Wait - there's something very weak coming through.

Threepio steps up to the control panel and listens intently to the strange signal.

THREEPIO: Sir, I am fluent in six million forms of communication. This signal is not used by the Alliance. It could be an Imperial code.

The transmission ends in static.

HAN: It isn't friendly, whatever it is. Come on, Chewie, let's check it out.

RIEEKAN: Send Rogues Ten and Eleven to station three-eight.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DAY

The dark probe robot moves past the smoldering ruins of station three eight and down a ridge toward the Rebel base. It raises a large antenna from the top of its head and begins to send out a piercing signal.

The probe droid has spotted Chewbacca who, not thirty feet away, has popped his head over a snow bank. Instantly, the probe robot swings around, its deadly ray ready to fire. But before it can get a shot off, it is hit from behind by a laser bolt, and explodes in a million pieces.

Han Solo replaces his blaster in its holster and peers intently at the smoldering remains of the Imperial probe.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Leia and Rieekan listen to Han on the comlink.

HAN: (over comlink)
Afraid there's not much left.

LEIA: (into comlink)
What was it?

HAN: (over comlink)
Droid of some kind. I didn't hit it that hard. It must have had a self-destruct.

LEIA: (into comlink)
An Imperial probe droid.

HAN: (over comlink)
It's a good bet the Empire knows we're here.

RIEEKAN: We'd better start the evacuation.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

Darth Vader's Star Destroyer, larger and more awesome than the five Imperial Star Destroyers that surround it, sits in the vastness of space. The six huge ships are surrounded by a convoy of smaller spacecraft. TIE fighters dart to and fro.

INT. DARTH VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - MAIN CONTROL DECK

Controllers working the vast complex of electronic controls hear ominous approaching footsteps and look up from their controls. The squat, evil-looking Admiral Ozzel and the young, powerfully built General Veers, who have been conferring near the front, also feel the approaching presence and turn toward it. Darth Vader, Lord of the Sith, enters like a chill wind. As Vader moves across the wide bridge, Captain Piett hurries up to Ozzel.

PIETT: Admiral.

OZZEL: Yes, Captain

PIETT: I think we've got something, sir. The report is only a fragment from a probe droid in the Hoth system, but it's the best lead we've had.

OZZEL: (irritated) We have thousands of probe droids searching the galaxy. I want proof, not leads!

PIETT: The visuals indicate life readings.

OZZEL: It could mean anything. If we followed every lead...

PIETT: But, sir, the Hoth system is supposed to be devoid of human forms.

Vader moves to a large screen showing an image of the Rebel snow base. Rebel speeders can be seen approaching the base in the distance.

VADER: You found something?

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

VADER: (studying the image on the console screen) That's it. The Rebels are there.

OZZEL: My lord, there are so many uncharted settlements. It could be smugglers, it could be...

VADER: That is the system. And I'm sure Skywalker is with them. Set your course for the Hoth system. General Veers, prepare you men.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - TRANSPORT BAY

A captain issues instructions to two of his men at the entrance to the main transport bay. Several Rebel transports behind them are being loaded by men carrying heavy boxes and moving quickly, but not in panic.

REBEL CAPTAIN: Groups seven and ten will stay behind to fly the speeders. As soon as each transport is loaded, evacuation control will give clearance for immediate launch.

REBEL FIGHTER: Right, sir.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Alarms sound. Troops, ground crews, and droids rush to their alert stations. Armored snowspeeders are lined up in attack formation near the main entrance.

In the midst of all this activity, Han does some frantic welding on the lifters of the Millennium Falcon.

Han finishes his work and hops down to the hangar floor. He pulls out his comlink, all the while eyeing problematic lifters.

HAN: (into comlink, to Chewie)
Okay, that's it. Try it... Off! Turn it off! Turn it off! Off!

Smoke rises from a minor explosion on the lifter. Exasperated, Han surveys the new damage.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER

Luke dresses in readiness for the evacuation as his attending medical droid stands by.

MEDICAL DROID: Sir, it will take quite a while to evacuate the T-forty- sevens.

LUKE: Well, forget the heavy equipment.
There's plenty of time to get the smaller modules on the transports.

MEDICAL DROID: Take care, sir.

LUKE: Thanks.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and R2 units scurry about. Luke, pulling on his heavy-weather jacket, is headed toward a row of armored speeders. He stops at the rear of the Millennium Falcon, where Han and Chewie are trying to repair the right lifter with even more haste than before.

LUKE: Chewie, take care of yourself, okay?

As Luke pats Chewie on the arm, Chewie puts his arms around Luke and gives him a tight hug. Han is discussing the lifter with a repair droid when he sees Luke.

HAN: Hi, kid.
(to droid)
There's got to be a reason for it. Check it at the other end.
Wait a second.
(to Luke)
You all right?

LUKE: Yeah.

HAN: Be careful.

LUKE: You, too.

Luke smiles, then waves at his friend and walks on. After a few steps, he stops and looks back. Han glances up and the two exchange a silent communication, each wishing the other safety, happiness - many things, all difficult to verbalize.

INT. REBEL BASE - CONTROL ROOM.

Alarms sound throughout the hidden Rebel base. In the control room, a controller urgently gestures for General Rieekan to check a computer scan.

CONTROLLER: General, there's a fleet of Star Destroyers coming out of hyperspace in sector four.

RIEEKAN: Reroute all power to the energy shield. We've got to hold them till all transports are away. Prepare for ground assault.

Rieekan exits hurriedly.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER - MEDITATION CUBICLE

The dark cubicle is illuminated by a single shaft of light which falls on the brooding Dark Lord as he sits on a raised meditation cube. General Veers enters the room and approaches the silent, unmoving Vader. Although seemingly very sure of himself, Veers is still not bold enough to interrupt the meditating lord. The younger general stands quietly at attention until the evil presence speaks.

VADER: What is it, General?

VEERS: My lord, the fleet has moves out of light-speed. Com-Scan has detected an energy field protecting an area around the sixth planet of the Hoth system. The field is strong enough to deflect any bombardment.

VADER: (angrily)
The Rebels are alerted to our presence. Admiral Ozzel came out of light-speed too close to the system.

VEERS: He felt surprise was wiser...

VADER: He is as clumsy as he is stupid.
General, prepare your troops for a surface attack.

VEERS: Yes, my lord.

Veers turns smartly and leaves as Vader activates a large viewscreen showing the bridge of his mighty ship. Admiral Ozzel appears on the viewscreen, standing slightly in front of Captain Piett.

OZZEL: Lord Vader, the fleet has moved out of light-speed, and we're preparing to... Aaagh!

VADER: You have failed me for the last time, Admiral. Captain Piett.

Piett steps forward, as the admiral moves away, slightly confused, touching his throat as it begins to constrict painfully.

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

VADER: Make ready to land out troops beyond the energy shield and deploy the fleet so that nothing gets off that system. You are in command now, Admiral Piett.

PIETT: Thank you, Lord Vader.

Piett's pleasure about his unexpected promotion is not an unmixed emotion. He glances warily at the struggling Admiral Ozzel who, with a final choke, stumbles and falls in a lifeless heap before him.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

With a sense of urgency, Leia quickly briefs a group of pilots gathered in the center of the hangar.

LEIA: All troop carriers will assemble at the north entrance. The heavy transport ships will leave as soon as they're loaded. Only two fighter escorts per ship. The energy shield can only be opened for a short time, so you'll have to stay very close to your transports.

HOBBIE: Two fighters against a Star Destroyer?

LEIA: The ion cannon will fire several shots to make sure that any enemy ships will be out of your flight path. When you've gotten past the energy shield, proceed directly to the rendezvous point. Understood?

PILOTS: (in unison)
Right. Okay.

LEIA: Good luck.

DERLIN: Okay. Everyone to your stations. Let's go!

The pilots hurry away.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH - DAY

Rebel troops carry heavy bazooka-type weapons and position them along the snow trench. Men hurriedly respond to their officers' yelled orders and brace themselves against the rhythmic gusts of bitter-cold wind.

Other troops load power packs into a gun turret and swing its guns into position.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - POWER GENERATORS

Near the base power generators, troops rush to set up their heavy battle equipment. Buzzing loudly, the generators send along, sparking fingers of energy into the bitter Hoth wind.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

The long line of Rebel controllers is tense, as are Princess Leia and General Rieekan, who are trying very hard not to show any fear.

RIEEKAN: Their primary target will be the power generators. Prepare to open the shield.

EXT. ICE PLAIN

The Rebel transport and two escort fighters begin their departure from the ice planet.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

A huge Imperial Star Destroyer rest against a sea of stars, far above the white surface of the planet Hoth.

INT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

An Imperial controller approaches his commander.

CONTROLLER: Sir, Rebel ships are coming into our sector.

CAPTAIN: Good. Our first catch of the day.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

WOMAN CONTROLLER: Stand by, ion control... Fire!

EXT. REBEL BASE ICE CAVE - ION CANNON

The giant ball-shaped ion cannon rotates into position and blasts two red energy beams skyward.

EXT. SPACE - HOTH - REBEL TRANSPORT

The Rebel transport and its escort race away from the white planet, closely followed by the two red energy beams.

As the Rebel transport races toward the waiting Imperial Star Destroyer, it is overtaken by the two scarlet energy bolts. The Imperial Star Destroyer is hit in the conning tower by the powerful bolts, which set up fiery explosions on its metal hull.

The big Star Destroyer veers, then spins wildly out of control. As the Imperial ship careers into deep space, the Rebel transport races away to safety.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and troopers hurry to their stations and their vehicles.

ANNOUNCER: (over loudspeaker)
The first transport is away.

Everyone cheers at the announcement, which echoes through the hangar. Luke turns and walks on, heading toward his snowspeeder. His gunner, Dack, a fresh-faced, eager kid, is glad to see him. They climb in.

DACK: Feeling all right, sir?

LUKE: Just like new, Dack. How about you?

DACK: Right now I feel like I could take on the whole Empire myself.

LUKE: (quietly, strapping in)
I know what you mean.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN

A thin horizon line cuts across the bleak landscape. Small dot-size objects begin to appear on the horizon, moving in the direction of the Rebel base.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

A Rebel officer lifts a pair of electrobinoculars to his eyes. Through the lens he sees a very close view of a giant Imperial snow walker. He adjusts the view which then zooms back to reveal three more of the ominous battle machines. Small flashes of yellow fire billow from the guns of the lumbering snow walkers.

The officer lowers his binoculars as the regular rhythmic pounding begins to make the ground vibrate. The pounding grows louder and is accompanied by a high-pitched, metallic rattling. The officer speaks into his comlink.

TRENCH OFFICER: Echo Station Three-T-Eight.

INT. REBEL BASE - CORRIDOR

Pilots and gunners race to their waiting snowspeeders. Ice and snow begin falling from the walls of the corridor, shaken by the pounding Imperial snow walker as they draw ever nearer.

TRENCH OFFICER: (over comlink) We have spotted Imperial walkers!

CONTROLLER: Imperial walkers on the north ridge.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The Rebel troops aim their weapons at the horizon as explosions erupt all around them. They are nervous and their grip on their weapons tightens from the cold and from fear.

Behind the troops a dozen snowspeeders race through the sky.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) Echo station Five-Seven. We're on our way.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

The fleet of snowspeeders races above the ice field at full throttle. They accelerate away from the base and head toward the distant walkers.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) All right, boys, keep tight now.

DACK: Luke, I have no approach vector. I'm not set.

LUKE: Steady, Dack. Attack pattern delta. Go now!

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

The cannons mounted on the walker head fire at the speeders. Other walkers loom in the background. Two speeders race away past two of the enormous walkers and bank to the right.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

LUKE: All right, I'm coming in.

He turns his speeder and heads directly at one of the walkers, flying toward its towering legs. The horizon twists as the speeder banks between the legs.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Hobbie, you still with me?

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Two speeders race directly at the head of a walker, then split and fly past it.

Three other walkers march onward, firing all cannons.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOWTRENCH

Rebel troops fire on the approaching walkers, as the snow and ice explode all around them.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

A speeder banks through and away from the legs of a walker. Two other speeders pass the first speeder from the opposite direction. Other Rebel craft race just above the icy plain.

A giant walker head swivels and fires, striking a snowspeeder and sending it crashing in a ball of flames.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

General Veers and two walker pilots keep a careful eye on the racing Rebel snowspeeders as they maneuver their lumbering war machine forward.

Luke's speeder banks in from the side of Veers's walker and heads straight for its viewport, blasting away. An explosion hits the walker window, but dissipates, doing no harm. The speeder roars up and over the impregnable war machine.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Luke looks back at the walker as it grows smaller in the distance.

LUKE: That armor's too strong for blasters.

On the horizon, another walker moves up past Luke's cockpit window, twisting out of sight as Luke banks and starts another run.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Rogue Group, use your harpoons and tow cables. Go for the legs.
It might be our only chance of stopping them.
(to Dack)
All right, stand by, Dack.

Dack is at the gunner's controls.

DACK: Luke, we've got a malfunction in fire control. I'll have to cut in the auxiliary.

LUKE: Just hang on. Hang on, Dack. Get ready to fire that tow cable.

Barely keeping his seat in the tumbling ship, Dack struggles to set up his harpoon gun.

Luke swings his speeder around and heads toward an oncoming walker. Laser bolts and flak fill the air, creating a deadly obstacle course for the tiny craft.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Rogue Leader and another snowspeeder fly in tight formation toward the walker as explosions burst all around them.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

After sustaining a heavy volley of fire, Luke turns around to see if Dack is all right.

LUKE: Dack? Dack!

Dack is lost. Blood streams down his forehead, which rests on his smoldering controls. Out the back window, an Imperial walker recedes in the distance.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH AREA

Rebel troops fire the dishlike ray gun while explosions erupt around them.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Two walkers lumber toward the Rebel base as a speeder between them explodes in a ball of flames.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The dislike ray gun is hit by a laser bolt and instantly explodes.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Through the cockpit window, Veers and his pilot can see the Rebel power generators in the distance.

A hologram of Darth Vader appears on a control panel screen.

VEERS: Yes, Lord Vader. I've reached the main power generator. The shield will be down in moments. You may start your landing.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) Rogue Three.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

WEDGE: (into comlink) Copy, Rogue Leader

LUKE (over comlink) Wedge, I've lost my gunner. You'll have to make this shot. I'll cover for you. Set your harpoon. Follow me on the next pass.

WEDGE: (into comlink) Coming around, Rogue Leader.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) Steady, Rogue Two

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Wedge's speeder races through the legs of one of the monstrous walkers.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

WEDGE: (to gunner) Activate harpoon.

Wedge's gunner reaches for a firing switch to activate the harpoon. The harpoon flashes out, and speeds toward the receding legs of the walker.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The harpoon hurtles toward the walker, In an instant it is embedded in one of the walker's legs.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

WEDGE (to gunner) Good shot, Janson.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder Rogue Three races around one of the giant walker's feet, trailing the cable behind it. Continuing around the back foot, Rogue Three then circles the walker around the tail end.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge checks his controls and banks around the front of the walker.

WEDGE: One more pass.

JANSON Coming around. Once more.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder sweeps left to right in front of the giant legs, towing the cable behind it.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

JANSON: Once more.

Wedge swings the speeder between the legs of the giant walker.

JANSON: Cable out! Let her go!

WEDGE: Detach cable.

EXT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE

The cable release on the back of the speeder snaps loose and the cable drops away.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

JANSON: Cable detached.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder zooms away into the distance. The tangled legs of the enormous war machine attempt a step, but as they do the giant Imperial walker begins to topple. It teeters for a moment, and then crashes onto the icy ground, sending snow and metal pieces flying.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The troops in the trenches cheer at the sight of the crashing walker.

An officer gives a signal to his men and Rebel troops charge the fallen war machine.

TRENCH OFFICER: Come on!

The troops run toward the downed walker, followed by two Rebel speeders flying overhead. Just as they reach the walker, it explodes, the impact throwing some of the men onto the frozen ground.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge lets out a triumphant yell, banking his speeder away from the fallen walker.

WEDGE: (into comlink) Whooha! That got him!

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) I see it, Wedge. Good work.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Large chunks of ice tumble into the command center as Leia and General Rieekan monitor computer screens.

RIEEKAN: I don't think we can protect two transports at a time.

LEIA 
It's risky, but we can't hold out much longer. We have no choice.

RIEEKAN: (into comlink) Launch patrols.

LEIA: (to an aide) Evacuate remaining ground staff.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Muffled distant explosions create widening cracks in the ice roof of the hangar. Trying to ignore the noise and falling bits of snow, Han works on one of the Falcon's lifters while Chewie works on one of the wings. Noticing Chewie attach a wrong part, Han grows impatient.

HAN: No, no! No! This one goes there, that one goes there. Right?

In another area of the hangar, Threepio watches as Artoo is raised up into Luke's X-wing fighter.

THREEPIO: Artoo, you take good care of Master Luke now, understand? And
... do take good care of yourself. Oh, dear, oh, dear.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The fierce battle on the vast snow plains of Hoth rages on. The Imperial walkers continue their slow, steady assault on the Rebel base, firing lasers as they lumber ever onward. In the snow trench, Rebel troops fire large bazookalike guns and dishlike ray guns as explosions erupt around them. A gun tower is hit by a laser bolt and instantly explodes. Another blast destroys a ray gun.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

General Veers studies various readouts on his control panel.

VEERS: All troops will debark for ground assault. Prepare to target the main generator.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Luke's speeder and Rogue Two fly in formation, banking from right to left and flying above the erupting battlefield. Flak bursts all around them.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Luke, glancing over, sees Rogue Two on his left. His ship shudders as flak bursts nearby.

LUKE: (into comlink) Rogue Two, are you all right?

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

ZEV: (into comlink) Yeah. I'm with you, Rogue Leader.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) We'll set harpoon. I'll cover for you.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The two speeders race across the horizon toward the giant walkers.

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

ZEV: (into comlink) Coming around.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) Watch that cross fire, boys.

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

ZEV: (into comlink) Set for position three.
(to gunner) Steady.

LUKE: (over comlink) Stay tight and low.

EXT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO

Luke's speeder moves in formation with Rogue Two, when suddenly Zev's speeder is hit by a laser bolt. His ship bucks violently under the impact and the cockpit explodes in a ball of flame.

Spewing smoke, the speeder hurtles toward a looming walker. Before they collide. Rogue Two explodes in a million flaming pieces.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Desperately, Luke works the controls of his flak-buffeted ship. Suddenly, the speeder is rocked by a huge explosion. Luke struggles with the controls with a look of terror on his face. The speeder fills with smoke, and electrical sparks jump about the cockpit.

LUKE: (into comlink) Hobbie, I've been hit!

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Apart from the distant thunder of laser blasts, the corridor is strangely quiet and empty. Running footsteps echo through the freezing hallway, then Han appears. Cracks have appeared in some of the walls and some pipes have broken, sending hot steam billowing into the underground hallways. Han hurries into the command center. It is a shambles, but some people are still at their posts. As he enters, a gigantic cave-in almost obliterates the room. He finds Leia and Threepio near one of the control boards.

HAN: You all right?

Leia nods. She is surprised to see him.

LEIA: Why are you still here?

HAN: I heard the command center had been hit.

LEIA: You got your clearance to leave.

HAN: Don't worry. I'll leave. First I'm going to get you to your ship.

THREEPIO: Your Highness, we must take this last transport. It's our only hope.

LEIA: (to controller) Send all troops in sector twelve to the south slope to protect the fighters.

A blast rocks the command center, throwing Threepio backward into Han's arms.

ANNOUNCER: (over loudspeaker) Imperial troops have entered the base.

HAN: Come on... that's it.

LEIA: (to head controller) Give the evacuation code signal. And get to your transports!

Leia looks exhausted. Han grabs her and starts to lead her out.

As Han, Leia, and Threepio run out of the command center, the code signal can be heard echoing off the corridor walls.

HEAD CONTROLLER: K-one-zero... all troops disengage.

THREEPIO: (to Han and Leia) Oh! Wait for me!

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - SNOW TRENCH

Rebel troops retreat under the awesome Imperial onslaught.

OFFICER: Begin retreat!

SECOND OFFICER: Fall back!

Troops flee from the battle, the ground exploding around them.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Three of the giant walkers, firing lasers, advance toward the Rebel headquarters.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW TRENCH

Continuing their retreat, the Rebels see the walkers looming ever nearer.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD - ICE PLAIN

On the battlefield, Luke watches as a walker foot rises and moves over him. He looks up at the underbelly of the huge walker, passing overhead.

Running beneath the monstrous machine, Luke fires his harpoon gun at the walker's underside. A thin cable follows the projectile from the gun. The magnetic head and cable attach firmly to the metal hull.

Still running under the walker, Luke attaches the cable drum to his belt buckle. Soon he is pulled up the cable and hangs dangling underneath the walker.

The walker's giant feet continue to pound onward across the frozen snow. Stray laser bolts whistle by Luke as he climbs up the cable to the walker's hull, reaching a small hatch. Hanging precariously, Luke cuts the solid metal hatch with his laser sword.

He takes a landmine from around his neck and throws it inside the Imperial machine. Quickly, Luke starts down the cable and crashes onto the icy ground far below. He lies unconscious as a giant rear leg passes by - and just misses him.

The giant walker stops in mid-step. A muffled explosion comes from within - and then the walker's mechanical insides are spewed out every conceivable opening. The machine sits dead in its tracks, smoking like a locomotive on stilts.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Veers's walker continues to advance toward the Rebel base. The smoldering walker that Luke exploded stands smoking just to the right of Veers's path.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Inside his walker, General Veers prepares to fire on the Rebel power generators.

VEERS: Distance to power generators?

PILOT: One-seven, decimal two-eight.

Veers reaches for the electrorangefinder and lines up the main generator.

VEERS: Target. Maximum fire power.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The Rebel troops continue their desperate retreat, pushed back by the relentless Imperial assault.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDORS

With Threepio lagging behind, Han and Leia race through the crumbling ice corridors. Suddenly, there is an explosion. Han turns, grabs the princess, and pulls her to the wall as a tremendous cave-in blacks their path.

He takes the comlink from his pocket.

HAN (into comlink) Transport, this is Solo. Better take off - I can't get to you. I'll get the princess out on the Falcon.

Han and Leia turn and race down the corridor.

THREEPIO: But... but... but... where are you going? Uh... come back!!

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Imperial troops have reached the base. As they push through the blocked passageway, Darth Vader strides behind them.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Han and Leia run toward the entrance of the main hangar where the Millennium Falcon is docked. Threepio still lags behind.

THREEPIO: Wait! Wait for me! Wait! Stop!

The door to the hangar closes in his face.

THREEPIO: (exasperated) How typical.

Quickly, the door reopens as Han reaches out and pulls the golden droid through.

HAN: Come on.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Chewie paces under the shelter of the Millennium Falcon's landing gear. The giant Wookiee pats the underbelly of his beloved ship and barks a few reassuring words. As he searches worriedly for his captain, something at last catches his eye.

Chewie lets out a relieved shriek at seeing Han and Leia running toward the ship. The Wookiee runs out into the falling ice, lets out a howl, then runs up the ship's ramp. Han and Leia run up the ramp after him, closely followed by Threepio.

HAN: Hurry up, goldenrod, or you're going to be a permanent resident!

THREEPIO: Wait! Wait!

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Imperial troops run through the base corridors. Vader surveys the place. A huge chunk falls, almost hitting him, but he calmly, purposefully, continues around it.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGER - MILLENNIUM FALCON

A distant, huge, explosion rocks the hangar deck. Ice cakes come crashing down on the Millennium Falcon.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD

Han, standing before a control panel, is busy flipping switches as Chewie watches a troublesome gauge. A worried Leia observes their efforts.

HAN: (to Chewie)
How's this?

The Wookiee barks a negative reply.

LEIA: Would it helped if I got out and pushed?

HAN: It might.

Threepio clanks into the hold.

THREEPIO: Captain Solo, Captain Solo... sir, might I suggest that you...

Han gives the gold robot a devastating look.

THREEPIO: It can wait.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

They move to the cockpit where Han flips some more switches. Leia watches him, impatient, disbelieving.

LEIA: This bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade.

HAN: This baby's got a few surprises left in her, sweetheart.

Han and Leia look out the cockpit window and see a squad of stormtroopers rushing into the far side of the hangar.

Quickly, Han straps himself into the pilot's seat and Leia into the navigator's chair.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Stormtroopers hurriedly set up a large bazookalike weapon. Behind them the giant hangar doors open slowly.

EXT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON

A laser gun appears on the Falcon and swings around to aim at the Imperial troops.

The stormtroopers, preparing to fire their bazooka cannon, are hit by the Falcon's fire and are thrown about in all directions.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie rushes into the cockpit.

HAN: Come on! Come on! Switch over.
Let's hope we don't have a burnout.

A laser hits the window near Chewie as he is settling into his chair. Letting out a loud whelp, Chewie quickly pulls back on the controls and the first stage of engine fire can be heard. Han flashes a big grin at Leia.

HAN: See?

LEIA: Someday you're going to be wrong, and I hope I'm there to see it.

Han looks at Chewie.

HAN: Punch it!

The roar of the Falcon's main engines blasts out everything as the ice cave wall rushes by outside the cockpit window.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

More stormtroopers run into the hangar, closely followed by Vader. Hearing the loud roar of the Millennium Falcon's engines, Vader looks toward the main hangar doors just in time to see the Falcon lift up and disappear outside the cave.

EXT. HOTH - ICE SLOPE - DAY

Luke and two other pilots look up as the Millennium Falcon races above them, flying very close to the ground.

The three pilots turn then, and trudge onward toward their X-wing fighters, each going to his own ship. Luke waves farewell, then heads toward his own fighter. 
Artoo, seated on his cubbyhole, chirps an excited greeting as Luke climbs aboard the spacecraft.

LUKE: Artoo! Get her ready for takeoff.

From his ship, Luke sees Wedge in his own X-wing, preparing for takeoff.

WEDGE: Good luck, Luke. See you at the rendezvous.

Luke smiles and nods at Wedge, then lowers himself into the cockpit of his X-wing while Artoo waits in the cubbyhole, beeping impatiently.

LUKE: Don't worry, Artoo. We're going, we're going.

The canopy over the X-wing lowers and snaps shut.

EXT. SPACE - LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's fighter, its wings closed, speeds away from the icy planet. Soon it disappears into the stars.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke, looking thoughtful, suddenly makes a decision. He flips several switches. The stars shift as he takes his fighter into a steep turn. The X-wing banks sharply and flies away in a new direction.

The monitor screen on Luke's control panel prints out a question from the concerned Artoo.

LUKE: (into comlink)
There's nothing wrong, Artoo.
I'm just setting a new course.

Artoo beeps once again.

LUKE: (into comlink)
We're not going to regroup with the others.

Artoo begins a protest, whistling an unbelieving, "What?!"

Luke reads Artoo's exclamation on his control panel.

LUKE: (into comlink)
We're going to the Dagobah system.

Luke checks his readouts and makes a few adjustments. He rides along with only the soft hum of the instruments to break the silence. Finally, Artoo chirps up.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Yes, Artoo?

Artoo utters a soft, carefully phrased steam of whistles.

LUKE: (into comlink, chuckling)
That's all right. I'd like to keep it on manual control for a while.

The little droid lets out a defeated whimper. Luke smiles, and continues on his course.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Millennium Falcon speeds away from Hoth, closely followed by one huge Star Destroyer and four tiny TIE fighters.

As it is pursued, the Falcon races toward two very bright star-sized objects.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Inside the cockpit, Chewie lets out a loud howl. Han checks as the ship is buffeted by exploding flak. He appears to be doing six things at once.

HAN: (harried)
I saw them! I saw them!

LEIA: Saw what?

HAN: Star Destroyers, two of them, coming right at us.

Threepio bumps and bangs his way into the cockpit.

THREEPIO: Sir, sir! Might I suggest...

HAN: (to Leia)
Shut him up or shut him down!
(to Chewie)
Check the deflector shield!

Chewie barks a reply as he readjusts an overhead switch.

HAN: Oh, great. Well, we can still outmaneuver them.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYERS

The Millennium Falcon races toward one of the huge oncoming Star Destroyers. Suddenly, the Falcon starts into a deep dive straight down, closely followed by four TIE fighters. The underside of the Star Destroyer continues on a collision course with two oncoming Star Destroyers. Slowly, it starts to veer to the left.

INT. STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE: Out the front window, the two approaching Star Destroyers can be seen veering to the left.

IMPERIAL OFFICER: Take evasive action!

Alarms sound all over the huge ship. The two other Star Destroyers get closer, one of them moving over the bridge so close that it makes brushing contact with it.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS

The Millennium Falcon races away from the colliding Star Destroyers, still followed by four TIE fighters. Laser bolts spark the pitch-black skies.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Things have calmed down a bit, but the race isn't over yet. Chewie barks at Han. Leia is still trying to recover from the steep dive. The ship is buffeted by laser blasts.

HAN: Prepare to make the jump to light speed.

THREEPIO: But, sir!

The buffeting of lasers becomes louder and stronger.

LEIA: They're getting closer!

HAN: (with a gleam in his eye)
Oh yeah? Watch this.

Expectantly, they look out the cockpit window as stars do not go into hyperspace, but just sit there.

Han and Chewie look at each other and are thrown into an acute state of concern.

LEIA: Watch what?

Han tries again. Still nothing.

HAN: I think we're in trouble.

THREEPIO: If I may say so, sir, I noticed earlier that the hyperdrive motivator has been damaged. It's impossible to go to light-speed!

HAN: We're in trouble!

The explosions become heavier.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS - STAR DESTROYER

The Falcon races into the starry vastness, followed by the four Imperial TIE fighters and an Imperial Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Stars race by as flak bursts outside the Falcon's window.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

Han works furiously at some control panels while giving various orders to Chewie.

HAN: Horizontal boosters...!
(Chewie barks)
Alluvial dampers...! Well that's not it.
(Chewie barks)
Bring me the hydrospanners!

Chewie hurries over to the pit and places the tools on the edge.

HAN: I don't know how we're going to get out of this one.

Suddenly, a loud thump hits the side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch radically. Chewie barks. The tools fall into the pit on top of Han.

HAN: Oww! Chewie!

More turbulence rocks the ship.

HAN: That was no laser blast! Something hit us.

LEIA: (over comlink)
Han, get up here!

HAN: Come on, Chewie!

Han climbs out of the hold like a shot. Both he and Chewie run out of the hold and toward the cockpit.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Out the front cockpit window, they see hundreds of asteroids racing by.

LEIA: Asteroids!

Han changes places with Leia who has been at the controls, and Chewie gets into his chair. Han works his controls as a chunk of rock crosses in front of the ship.

HAN: Oh, no! Chewie, set two-seven one.

LEIA: What are you doing? You're not actually going into an asteroid field?

HAN: They'd be crazy to follow us, wouldn't they?

Another asteroid thumps against the ship and Leia winces at the jolt.

LEIA: You don't have to do this to impress me.

THREEPIO: Sir, the possibility of successfully navigating an asteroid field is approximately three thousand, seven hundred and twenty to one.

HAN: Never tell me the odds!

EXT. ASTEROID BELT - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Falcon turns into the asteroid storm and as the ship completes its turn, asteroids start coming straight at the cockpit windows.

A large asteroid tumbles away from the Falcon's path at top speed. Several smaller asteroids crash into the big one, creating small explosions on its surface. Other asteroids of all sizes pass by in every direction, some colliding and exploding. The tiny Millennium Falcon veers around the big asteroid and races past it through the rain of rocks, followed by four TIE fighters, which bob and weave around the asteroids.

One of the pursuing TIE fighters connects with an asteroid and explodes. The other fighters are pelted with a steady stream of smaller explosions.

Two huge asteroids tumble toward the Millennium Falcon, which quickly banks around both of them. The three TIE fighters follow in hot pursuit until one of the fighters scrapes an asteroid and tumbles out of control into deep space.

EXT. SPACE - STAR DESTROYER - ASTEROID BELT

The massive Star Destroyer blasts oncoming asteroids as it follows the Falcon. Smaller asteroids explode across its vast surface.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS - ASTEROID BELT

The Falcon twists on its side as it races around an oncoming asteroid. Two TIE fighters follow in the distance, coming from either side.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Asteroids race by the cockpit window as Han pilots his trusty craft through the dangerous field.

Looking out the cockpit window, the Falcon crew sees a big asteroid drop past the window, narrowly missing their ship.

Chewie barks in terror as a slightly smaller asteroid comes especially close - to close - and bounces off the Falcon with a loud crunch. Threepio's hands cover his eyes. He manages a short peek at the cockpit window. Princess Leia sits stone-faced, staring at the action. Han gives her a quick look.

HAN: You said you wanted to be around when I made a mistake; well, this could be it, sweetheart.

LEIA: I take it back. We're going to get pulverized if we stay out here much longer.

The group watches as more asteroids race by outside the window.

HAN: I'm not going to argue with that.

THREEPIO: Pulverized?

HAN: I'm going in closer to one of those big ones.

LEIA: Closer?

THREEPIO: Closer?!

Chewbacca barks the same word, only louder.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon dives toward the surface of one of the moon-sized asteroids. There is a continued display of explosions against the starry void as smaller asteroids collide with larger chunks of rock. The two remaining TIE fighters follow the Falcon to the large asteroid. The Falcon skims the surface of the giant asteroid as, all the while, small asteroids explode on the surface of the ship.

The TIE fighters approach the Falcon, but a giant asteroid hurtles directly into their path. As the asteroid continues on its way, it leaves remains of the two exploded TIE fighters to tumble into deep space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Rattled by the violent rocking of the starship, Threepio is nearly in hysterics.

THREEPIO: Oh, this is suicide!

Han notices something on his main scope and nudges his faithful Wookiee, pointing.

HAN: There. That looks pretty good.

LEIA: What looks pretty good?

HAN: Yeah. That'll do nicely.

THREEPIO: (to Leia)
Excuse me, ma'am, but where are we going?

Out the cockpit window, they see that they are skimming the surface of the enormous asteroid and nearing a large crater.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Millennium Falcon dives into the huge crater and disappears.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

LEIA: I hope you know what you're doing.

HAN: Yeah, me too.

INT. GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Falcon races down into the crater. The walls are barely visible as the ship speed through the tunnellike opening. A small cave appears on one side of the crater, and the Falcon turns, slows, and scoots into it.

EXT. SPACE - LUKE'S X-WING

The tiny X-wing speeds toward the cloud cover of Dagobah. Artoo, riding on the back of the fighter, turns his head back and forth with some anxiety.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke watches Artoo's words as they are translated and screened on the computer scope.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Yes, that's it. Dagobah.

Artoo beeps a hopeful inquiry.

LUKE: (into comlink)
No, I'm not going to change my mind about this.
(getting a little nervous)
I'm not picking up any cities or technology. Massive life-form readings, though. There's something alive down there...

Artoo beeps, this time a slightly worried question.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids.

EXT. SPACE - DAGOBAH - LUKE'S X-WING

The X-wing continues its flight through the twilight above the cloud covered planet.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke sees the cloud race by as he takes his craft closer to the planet. He must operate his controls carefully since the cloud cover has completely obscured his vision. An alarm buzzes in the background, Artoo beeps and whistles frantically.

LUKE: (into comlink)
I know, I know! All the scopes are dead. I can't see a thing! Just hang on, I'm going to start the landing cycle...

The blast of the retrorockets is deafening, drowning out Artoo's electronic squeals. Suddenly, there is a cracking sound as if limbs were being broken off trees and then a tremendous jolt as the spacecraft stops. Luke pulls a switch and his canopy pops open.

EXT. DAGOBAH - DUSK

The mist-shrouded X-wing fighter is almost invisible in the thick fog. Luke climbs out onto the long nose of the spacecraft as Artoo pops out of his cubbyhole on the back. The young warrior surveys the fog, which is barely pierced by the ship's landing lights. About all he can make out are some giant, twisted trees nearby. Artoo whistles anxiously.

LUKE: No, Artoo, you stay put. I'll have a look around.

Artoo lets out a short beep. As Luke moves along the nose, Artoo loses his balance and disappears with a splash into the boggy lake.

LUKE: Artoo?

Luke kneels and leans over the plane looking for Artoo, but the water is still and reveals no sign of the little droid.

LUKE: Artoo! Where are you?

A small periscope breaks the surface of the water and a gurgly beep is heard. The periscope starts to move to shore. Relieved, Luke starts running along the nose of the fighter to its tip.

LUKE: Artoo! You be more careful.

The outline of the shore is now more than ten feet away.

Luke jumps off the plane into the water, scrambles up to the shore, and turns to look for Artoo. The periscope still steadily moves toward shore.

LUKE: Artoo - that way!

Suddenly, through the thick fog layer, a dark shape appears, moving toward the little droid. The dark, sinuous bog beast dives beneath the swampy water, making a loud clunk against Artoo's metal hull. The droid disappears from sight, uttering a pathetic electronic scream.

Holding his ignited lightsaber before him, Luke wades a few feet into the murky pool, looking for any sign of his little friend.

LUKE: Artoo!

The black surface is still as death itself... until a few bubbles begin to appear. Then, phheewaat!! The runt-size robot is spit out of the water, makes a graceful arc, and comes crashing down into a patch of soft gray moss.

LUKE: Oh, no! Are you all right? Come on. You're lucky you don't taste very good. Anything broken?

Luke helps Artoo to his feet and begins wiping the mud and roots from his round metal body. Artoo responds with feeble, soggy beeps.

LUKE: If you're saying coming here was a bad idea, I'm beginning to agree with you. Oh, Artoo, what are we doing here? It's like... something out of a dream, or, I don't know. Maybe I'm just going crazy.

As Luke glances around at the spooky swamp jungle that surrounds him, Artoo ejects a stream of muddy water from one of his cranial ports.

EXT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER

Admiral Piett hesitates in the entryway to Vader's private cubicle.

After a moment, he steps into the room and pauses at the surprising sight before him.

Darth Vader, his back turned, is silhouetted in the gloom on the far side of the chamber. A black, insectlike droid attends him. Among the various apparatuses surrounding them, a respirator tube now retracts from Vader's uncovered head. The head is bald with a mass of ugly scar tissue covering it. The black droid then lowers the mask and helmet onto Vader's head. When it is in place, the Dark Lord turns to face Piett.

VADER: Yes, Admiral?

PIETT: Our ships have sighted the Millennium Falcon, lord. But... it has entered an asteroid field and we cannot risk...

VADER: (interrupting)
Asteroids do not concern me, Admiral. I want that ship and not excuses.

PIETT: Yes, lord.

EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The pirate starship rests in a dark, dripping asteroid cave. It is so dark that the cave's exact dimensions are impossible to determine.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han and Chewie busily shut down the engine and all electronic systems. Threepio and Leia watch worriedly.

HAN: I'm going to shut down everything but the emergency power systems. 
THREEPIO: Sir, I'm almost afraid to ask, but... does that include shutting me down, too?

Chewie barks "yes". But Han thinks otherwise.

HAN: No, I need you to talk to the Falcon, find out what's wrong with the hyperdrive.

Suddenly, the ship lurches, causing all the loose items in the cockpit to go flying. Chewie howls.

THREEPIO: Sir, it's quite possible this asteroid is not entirely stable.

HAN: Not entirely stable? I'm glad you're here to tell us these things. Chewie, take the professor in the back and plug him into the hyperdrive.

THREEPIO: Oh! Sometimes I just don't understand human behavior. After all, I'm only trying to do my job in the most...

The sliding door closes behind the indignant Threepio as Chewie and he move back to the hold. Suddenly, the ship lurches again, throwing Leia across the cabin into Han's arms. Then, abruptly, the motion stops as suddenly as it started. With some surprise, Han and Leia realize they are in each other's arms.

LEIA: Let go.

HAN: Sshh!

LEIA: Let go, please.

Leia flushes, averting her eyes. She's not exactly fighting to get free. But, of course, Han blows it...

HAN: Don't get excited.

The anger rises in Leia.

LEIA: Captain, being held by you isn't quite enough to get me excited.

HAN: Sorry, sweetheart. We haven't got time for anything else.

Han grins quickly wickedly at Leia as he turns and exits through the door. Leia's confused emotions show clearly on her lovely face.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG CLEARING - DUSK

The mist has dispersed a bit, but it is still a very gloomy-looking swamp.

Luke pulls an equipment box from the shore to the clearing. He ignites a little fusion furnace and warms his hands before it. Taking a power cable, he plugs it into Artoo's noselike socket.

LUKE: Ready for some power? Okay. Let's see now. Put that in there. There you go.

The droid whistles his appreciation. Luke then opens a container of processed food and sits before the thermal heater.

LUKE: (sighs)
Now all I have to do is find this Yoda... if he even exists.

Nervously, he looks around at the foreboding jungle.

LUKE: Still... there's something familiar about this place. I feel like... I don't know...

STRANGE VOICE: Feel like what?

Luke jumps out of his skin. Artoo screeches in terror. The young warrior grabs for his lightsaber as he spins around, looking for the speaker. Mysteriously standing right in front of Luke is a strange, bluish creature, not more than two feet tall. The wizened little thing is dressed in rags. It motions toward Luke's sword.

LUKE: (looking at the creature)
Like we're being watched!

CREATURE: Away with your weapon! I mean you no harm.

After some hesitation, Luke puts away his weapon, although he really doesn't understand why. Artoo watches with interest.

CREATURE: I am wondering, why are you here?

LUKE: I'm looking for someone.

CREATURE: Looking? Found someone, you have, I would say, hmmm?

The little creature laughs.

LUKE: (Trying to keep from smiling)
Right.

CREATURE: Help you I can. Yes, mmmm.

LUKE: I don't think so. I'm looking for a great warrior.

CREATURE: Ahhh! A great warrior.
(laughs and shakes his head)
Wars not make one great.

With the aid of a walking stick, the tiny stranger moves over to one of the cases of supplies. He begins to rummage around.

Artoo moves to the edge of the case - standing almost eye level to the creature who is carelessly handling the supplies - and squeaks his disapproval.

Their tiny visitor pick up the container of food Luke was eating from and takes a bite.

LUKE: Put that down. Hey! That's my dinner!

The creature spits out the bite he has taken. He makes a face.

CREATURE: How you get so big, eating food of this kind?

He flips the container in Luke's direction and reaches into one of Luke's supply cases.

LUKE: Listen, friend, we didn't mean to land in that puddle, and if we could get our ship out, we would, but we can't, so why don't you just...

CREATURE: (teasing)
Aww, cannot get your ship out?

The creature spots something of interest in Luke's case. Luke loses patience and grabs the case away. The creature retains his prize - a tiny power lamp - and examines it with delight.

LUKE: Hey, you could have broken this.
Don't do that. Ohhh... you're making a mess. Hey, give me that!

CREATURE: (retreating with the lamp)
Mine! Or I will help you not.

Clutching its treasure, the creature backs away from Luke, drawing closer to Artoo. As Luke and the creature argue, one of Artoo's little arms slowly moves out toward the power lamp, completely unnoticed by the creature.

LUKE: I don't want your help. I want my lamp back. I'll need it to get out of this slimy mudhole.

CREATURE: Mudhole? Slimy? My home this is.

Artoo grabs hold of the lamp and the two little figures are immediately engaged in a tug-of-war over it.

Artoo beeps a few angry, "Give me thats."

CREATURE: Ah, ah, ah!

LUKE: Oh, Artoo, let him have it!

CREATURE: Mine! Mine!

LUKE: Artoo!

CREATURE: Mine!

The creature lets go with one hand and pokes Artoo lightly with one finger. Artoo reacts with a startled squeal, and lets go.

CREATURE: Mine!

LUKE: (fed up)
Now will you move along, little fella? We're got a lot of work to do.

CREATURE: No! No, no! Stay and help you, I will.
(laughs)
Find your friend, hmm?

LUKE: I'm not looking for a friend. I'm looking for a Jedi Master.

CREATURE: Oohhh. Jedi Master. Yoda. You seek Yoda.

LUKE: You know him?

CREATURE: Mmm. Take you to him, I will.
(laughs)
Yes, yes. But now, we must eat.
Come. Good food. Come.

With that, the creature scurries out of the clearing, laughing merrily. Luke stares after him. All he sees is the faint light from the small power lamp moving through the fog. Luke makes his decision and starts after the creature.

CREATURE: (in the distance)
Come, come.

Artoo, very upset, whistles a blue streak of protest.

LUKE: Stay here and watch after the camp, Artoo.

Artoo beeps even more frantically. But as Luke disappears from view, the worried little droid grows quieter, and utters a soft electronic sigh.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD AREA

Threepio whistles and beeps a strange dialect into the control panel in front of him. The control panel whistles back a few mystifying beeps.

THREEPIO: Oh, where is Artoo when I need him?

Han enters the hold area and kneels on the floor near the control box.

THREEPIO: Sir, I don't know where your ship learned to communicate, but it has the most peculiar dialect. I believe, sir, it says that the power coupling on the negative axis has been polarized. I'm afraid you'll have to replace it.

HAN: Well, of course I'll have to replace it.

He hands a wire coil up to Chewie who is working near the ceiling.

HAN: Here! And Chewie...

Chewie brings his head back through the trap door in the ceiling and whines. Han glances back at Threepio, then speaks quietly to Chewie so only he can hear.

HAN: (continuing)
... I think we'd better replace the negative power coupling.

Leia finishes welding the valves she has been working on and attempts to reengage the system by pulling a lever attached to the valve. It doesn't budge. Han notices her struggle, and moves to help her. She rebuffs him.

HAN: Hey, Your Worship, I'm only trying to help.

LEIA: (still struggling)
Would you please stop calling me that?

Han hears a new tone in her voice. He watches her pull on the lever.

HAN: Sure, Leia.

LEIA: Oh, you make it so difficult sometimes.

HAN: I do, I really do. You could be a little nicer, though.
(he watches her reaction)
Come on, admit it. Sometimes you think I'm all right.

She lets go of the lever and rubs her sore hand.

LEIA: Occasionally...
(a little smile, haltingly)
... when you aren't acting like a scoundrel.

HAN: (laughs)
Scoundrel? Scoundrel? I like the sound of that.

With that, Han takes her hand and starts to massage it.

LEIA: Stop that.

HAN: Stop what?

Leia is flushes, confused.

LEIA: Stop that! My hands are dirty.

HAN: My hands are dirty, too. What are you afraid of?

LEIA: (looking right into his eyes)
Afraid?

Han looks at her with a piercing look. He's never looked more handsome, more dashing, more confident. He reaches out slowly and takes Leia's hand again from where it is resting on a console. He draws it toward him.

HAN: You're trembling.

LEIA: I'm not trembling.

Then with an irresistible combination of physical strength and emotional power, the space pirate begins to draw Leia toward him... very slowly.

HAN: You like me because I'm a scoundrel.
There aren't enough scoundrels in your life.

Leia is now very close to Han and as she speaks, her voice becomes an excited whisper, a tone completely in opposition to her words.

LEIA: I happen to like nice men.

HAN: I'm a nice man.

LEIA: No, you're not. You're...

He kisses her now, with slow, hot lips. He takes his time, as though he had forever, bending her body backward. She has never been kissed like this before, and it almost makes her faint. When he stops, she regains her breath and tries to work up some indignation, but finds it hard to talk.

Suddenly, Threepio appears in the doorway, speaking excitedly.

THREEPIO: Sir, sir! I've isolated the reverse power flux coupling.

Han turns slowly, icily, from their embrace.

HAN: Thank you. Thank you very much.

THREEPIO: Oh, you're perfectly welcome, sir.

The moment spoiled, Han marches out after Threepio.

EXT. SPACE - ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet moves through the asteroid-filled void, intently seeking its prey.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Asteroids collide, creating a fireworks display outside the bridge window. Darth Vader stands, staring out the window above the control deck. Then slowly turns toward the bridge. Before him are the hologram images of twenty battleship commanders. One of these images, the commander of a ship that has just exploded, is fading away quickly. Another image, in the center and a little apart from the others, is faded and continually disrupted by static. It is the image of Captain Needa, commander of the Star Destroyer most hotly on the tail of the Millennium Falcon. Admiral Piett and an aide stand behind the Dark Lord.

NEEDA: (in hologram)
... and that, Lord Vader, was the last time they appeared in any of our scopes. Considering the amount of damage we've sustained, they must have been destroyed.

VADER: No, Captain, they're alive. I want every ship available to sweep the asteroid field until they are found.

The Imperial star captains fade out one by one as Vader turns to Admiral Piett.

PIETT: Lord Vader.

VADER: Yes, Admiral, what is it?

The admiral is scared, his face white as a sheet.

PIETT: The Emperor commands you make contact with him.

VADER: Move the ship out of the asteroid field so that we can send a clear transmission.

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

EXT. ASTEROID FIELD - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves against the vast sea of stars away from the rest of the fleet.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER

The Dark Lord, Darth Vader, is alone in his chamber. A strange sound enters the room and a light begins to play across Vader's black figure. He looks up and bows quickly.

A twelve-foot hologram of the Galactic Emperor materializes before Vader. The Emperor's dark robes and monk's hood are reminiscent of the cloak worn by Ben Kenobi. His voice is even deeper and more frightening than Vader's.

VADER: What is thy bidding, my master?

EMPEROR: There is a great disturbance in the Force.

VADER: I have felt it.

EMPEROR: We have a new enemy - Luke Skywalker.

VADER: Yes, my master.

EMPEROR: He could destroy us.

VADER: He's just a boy. Obi-Wan can no longer help him.

EMPEROR: The Force is strong with him. The son of Skywalker must not become a Jedi.

VADER: If he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally.

EMPEROR: Yes. Yes. He would be a great asset. Can it be done?

VADER: He will join us or die, my master.

Vader kneels. The supreme Emperor passes a hand over the crouched Lord of the Sith and fades away.

EXT. DAGOBAH - CREATURE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A heavy downpour of rain pounds through the gnarled trees. A strange baroque mud house sits on a moss-covered knoll on the edge of a small lagoon. The small, gnomish structure radiates a warm glow from its thick glass windows. As rain tap-dances a merry tune on Artoo's head, the stubby little droid rises up on his tip-toes to peek into one of the glowing portals.

INT. CREATURE'S HOUSE

Artoo, peeking in the window, sees the inside of the house - a very plain, but cozy dwelling. Everything is in the same small scale as the creature. The only thing out of place in the miniature room is Luke, whose height makes the four-foot ceiling seem even lower. He sits cross-legged on the floor of the living room.

The creature is in an adjoining area - his little kitchen - cooking up an incredible meal. The stove is a steaming hodgepodge of pots and pans. The wizened little host scurries about chopping this, shredding that, and showering everything with exotic herbs and spices. He rushes back and forth putting platters on the table in front of Luke, who watches the creature impatiently.

LUKE: Look, I'm sure it's delicious. I just don't understand why we can't see Yoda now.

CREATURE: Patience! For the Jedi it is time to eat as well. Eat, eat. Hot. Good food, hm? Good, hmm?

Moving with some difficulty in the cramped quarters, Luke sits down near the fire and serves himself from the pot. Tasting the unfamiliar concoction, he is pleasantly surprised.

LUKE: How far away is Yoda? Will it take us long to get there?

CREATURE: Not far. Yoda not far. Patience.
Soon you will be with him.
(tasting food from the pot)
Rootleaf, I cook. Why wish you become Jedi? Hm?

LUKE: Mostly because of my father, I guess.

CREATURE: Ah, your father. Powerful Jedi was he, powerful Jedi, mmm.

LUKE: (a little angry)
Oh, come on. How could you know my father? You don't even know who I am.
(fed up)
Oh, I don't know what I'm doing here. We're wasting our time.

The creature turns away from Luke and speaks to a third party.

CREATURE: (irritated)
I cannot teach him. The boy has no patience.

Luke's head spins in the direction the creature faces. But there is no one there. The boy is bewildered, but it gradually dawns on him that the little creature is Yoda, the Jedi Master, and that he is speaking with Ben.

BEN'S VOICE: He will learn patience.

YODA: Hmmm. Much anger in him, like his father.

BEN'S VOICE: Was I any different when you taught me?

YODA: Hah. He is not ready.

LUKE: Yoda! I am ready. I... Ben! I can be a Jedi. Ben, tell him I'm ready.

Trying to see Ben, Luke starts to get up but hits his head on the low ceiling.

YODA: Ready, are you? What know you of ready? For eight hundred years have I trained Jedi. My own counsel will I keep on who is to be trained!
A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind.
(to the invisible Ben, indicating Luke)
This one a long time have I watched.
All his life has he looked away...
to the future, to the horizon.
Never his mind on where he was.
Hmm? What he was doing. Hmph. Adventure. Heh! Excitement. Heh! A Jedi craves not these things.
(turning to Luke)
You are reckless!

Luke looks down. He knows it is true.

BEN'S VOICE: So was I, if you'll remember.

YODA: He is too old. Yes, too old to begin the training.

Luke thinks he detects a subtle softening in Yoda's voice.

LUKE: But I've learned so much.

Yoda turns his piercing gaze on Luke, as though the Jedi Master's huge eyes could somehow determine how much the boy had learned. After a long moment, the little Jedi turns toward where he alone sees Ben.

YODA: (sighs)
Will he finished what he begins?

LUKE: I won't fail you - I'm not afraid.

YODA: (turns slowly toward him)
Oh, you will be. You will be.

EXT. SPACE - STAR DESTROYERS - ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet around Vader's ship is surrounded by the asteroid storm. Asteroids big and small pelt the vast exteriors of the menacing ships. One of the smaller Imperial vessels is hit by a huge asteroid and explodes in a brilliant flash of light.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The cockpit is quiet and lit only by the indicator lights on the control panel. Princess Leia sits in the pilot's seat.

She runs her hand across the control panel as she thinks of Han and the confusion he has created within her. Suddenly, something outside the cockpit window catches her eye. The reflection of the panel lights obscures her vision until a soft suctionlike cup attaches itself to the windscreen. Leia moves closer to see what it might be. Large, yellow eyes flash open and stare back at her. Startled, she jumps back into her seat, her heart pounding. There is a scurry of feet and a loud screech, and in an instant the eyes are gone. The young princess catches her breath, jumps out of her chair, and races from the cockpit.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

The lights go bright for a second then out again. Threepio and Chewbacca watch as Han finishes with some wires.

THREEPIO: Sir, if I may venture an opinion...

HAN: I'm not really interested in your opinion, Threepio.

Leia rushes into the cabin just as Han drops the final floor panel into place.

LEIA: (out of breath)
There's something out there.

HAN: Where?

LEIA: Outside, in the cave.

As she speaks, there comes a sharp banging on the hull. Chewie looks up and barks anxiously.

THREEPIO: There it is. Listen! Listen!

HAN: I'm going out there.

LEIA: Are you crazy?!

HAN: I just got this bucket back together. I'm not going to let something tear it apart.

He and Chewie grab their breath masks off a rack and hurry out. Leia follows.

LEIA: Then I'm going with you.

THREEPIO: I think it might be better if I stay here and guard the ship.
(hears another mysterious noise)
Oh, no.

EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is very dark inside the huge asteroid cave, too dark to see what is attacking the ship.

Leia stamps her foot on the floor of the cave.

LEIA: This ground sure feels strange.
It doesn't feel like rock at all.

Han kneels and studies the ground, then attempts to study the outline of the cave.

HAN: There's an awful lot of moisture in here.

LEIA: I don't know. I have a bad feeling about this.

HAN: Yeah.

Chewie barks through his face mask, and points toward the ship's cockpit. A five-foot-long shape can be seen moving across the top of the Falcon. The leathery creature lets out a screech as Han blasts it with a laser bolt.

HAN: (to Leia)
Watch out!

The black shape tumbles off the spaceship and onto the ground in front of the princess. Han bends down to investigate the dead creature.

HAN: Yeah, that's what I thought.
Mynock. Chewie, check the rest of the ship, make sure there aren't any more attached. They're chewing on the power cables.

LEIA: Mynocks?

HAN: Go on inside. We'll clean them off if there are any more.

Just then, a swarm of the ugly creatures swoops through the air. Leia puts her arms over her head to protect herself as she runs toward the ship. Chewie shoos another Mynock away with his blaster. Several of the batlike creatures flap their wings loudly against the cockpit window of the Falcon. Inside, Threepio shudders at their presence.

THREEPIO: Ohhh! Go away! Go away! Beastly little thing. Shoo! Shoo!

Han looks around the strange, dripping cave.

HAN: Wait a minute...

He unholsters his blaster and fires at the far side of the huge cave. The cavern begins to shake and the ground starts to buckle.

Chewie barks and moves for the ship, followed closely by Leia and Han. The large wings of the Mynocks flap past them as they protect their faces and run up the platform.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ENTRY AREA

As soon as Han and Leia are on board, Chewie closes the main hatch. The ship continues to shake and heave.

HAN: All right, Chewie, let's get out of here!

The Wookiee heads for the cockpit as Han, followed by Threepio, rushes to the hold area and checks the scopes on the control panel. Leia hurries after.

LEIA: The Empire is still out there.
I don't think it's wise to...

Han rushes past her and heads for the cockpit.

HAN: (interrupting)
No time to discuss this in committee.

And with that he is gone. The main engines of the Falcon begin to whine. Leia races after him, bouncing around in the shaking ship.

LEIA: (angry)
I am not a committee!

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han is already in the pilot's seat pulling back on the throttle. The cave-quake has greatly diminished.

LEIA: You can't make the jump to light speed in this asteroid field...

HAN: Sit down, sweetheart. We're taking off!

As the ship begins to move forward, Chewie barks. He notices something out the window ahead. Threepio sees it too.

THREEPIO: Look!

HAN: I see it, I see it.

Suddenly, a row of jagged white stalagmites and stalactites can be seen surrounding the entrance. And as the Falcon moves forward, the entrance to the cave grows ever smaller. Han pulls hard on the throttle, sending his ship surging forward.

THREEPIO: We're doomed!

LEIA: The cave is collapsing.

HAN: This is no cave.

LEIA: What?

Leia's mouth drops open . She sees that the rocks of the cave entrance are not rocks at all, but giant teeth, quickly closing around the tiny ship. Chewie howls.

INT. SPACE SLUG MOUTH

The Millennium Falcon, zooming through the monster's mouth, rolls on its side and barely makes it between two of the gigantic white teeth before the huge jaws slams closed.

EXT. CAVE ENTRANCE - GIANT ASTEROID

The enormous space slug moves its head out of the cave as the Falcon flies out of its mouth. The monster tilts its head, watching the starship fly away.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID

The Falcon races out of the asteroid crater and into the deadly rain of the asteroid storm.

EXT. DAGOBAH - DAY

With Yoda strapped to his back, Luke climbs up one of the many thick vines that grow in the swamp. Panting heavily, he continues his course - climbing, flipping through the air, jumping over roots, and racing in and out of the heavy ground fog.

YODA: Run! Yes. A Jedi's strength flows from the Force. But beware of the dark side. Anger... fear... aggression. The dark side of the Force are they.
Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did Obi-Wan's apprentice.

LUKE: Vader. Is the dark side stronger?

YODA: No... no... no. Quicker, easier, more seductive.

LUKE: But how am I to know the good side from the bad?

YODA: You will know. When you are calm, at peace. Passive. A Jedi uses the Force for knowledge and defense, never for attack.

LUKE: But tell me why I can't...

YODA: (interrupting)
No, no, there is no why. Nothing more will I teach you today.
Clear your mind of questions. Mmm. Mmmmmmmm.

Artoo beeps in the distance as Luke lets Yoda down to the ground. Breathing heavily, he takes his shirt from a nearby tree branch and pulls it on.

He turns to see a huge, dead, black tree, its base surrounded by a few feet of water. Giant, twisted roots form a dark and sinister cave on one side. Luke stares at the tree, trembling.

LUKE: There's something not right here.

Yoda sits on a large root, poking his Gimer Stick into the dirt.

LUKE: I feel cold, death.

YODA: That place... is strong with the dark side of the Force. A domain of evil it is. In you must go.

LUKE: What's in there?

YODA: Only what you take with you.

Luke looks warily between the tree and Yoda. He starts to strap on his weapon belt.

YODA: Your weapons... you will not need them.

Luke gives the tree a long look, than shakes his head "no." Yoda shrugs. Luke reaches up to brush aside some hanging vines and enters the tree.

INT. DAGOBAH - TREE CAVE

Luke moves into the almost total darkness of the wet and slimy cave. The youth can barely make out the edge of the passage. Holding his lit saber before him, he sees a lizard crawling up the side of the cave and a snake wrapped around the branches of a tree. Luke draws a deep breath, then pushes deeper into the cave.

The space widens around him, but he feels that rather than sees it. His sword casts the only light as he peers into the darkness. It is very quiet here.

Then, a loud HISS! Darth Vader appears across the blackness, illuminated by his own just-ignited laser sword. Immediately, he charges Luke, saber held high. He is upon the youth in seconds, but Luke sidesteps perfectly and slashes at Vader with his sword.

Vader is decapitated. His helmet-encased head flies from his shoulders as his body disappears into the darkness. The metallic banging of the helmet fills the cave as Vader's head spins and bounces, smashes on the floor, and finally stops. For an instant it rests on the floor, then it cracks vertically. The black helmet and breath mask fall away to reveal... Luke's head.

Across the space, the standing Luke gasps at the sight, wide-eyed in terror.

The decapitated head fades away, as in a vision.

EXT. DAGOBAH - CAVE - DUSK

Meanwhile, Yoda sits on the root, calmly leaning on his Gimer Stick.

EXT. SPACE - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves through space, guarded by its convoy of TIE fighters.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - CONTROL DECK

Vader stands in the back control area of his ship's bridge with a motley group of men and creatures. Admiral Piett and two controllers stand at the front of the bridge and watch the group with scorn.

PIETT: Bounty hunters. We don't need that scum.

FIRST CONTROLLER: Yes, sir.

PIETT: Those Rebels won't escape us.

A second controller interrupts.

SECOND CONTROLLER: Sir, we have a priority signal from the Star Destroyer Avenger.

PIETT: Right.

The group standing before Vader is a bizarre array of galactic fortune hunters There is Bossk, a slimy, tentacled monster with two huge, bloodshot eyes in a soft baggy face; Zuckuss and Dengar, two battle scarred, mangy human types; IG-88, a battered, tarnished chrome war droid; and Boba Fett, a man in a weapon-covered armored space suit.

VADER: ... there will be a substantial reward for the one who finds the Millennium Falcon. You are free to use any methods necessary, but I want them alive. No disintegrations.

BOBA FETT: As you wish.

At that moment, Admiral Piett approaches Vader in a rush of excitement.

PIETT: Lord Vader! My lord, we have them.

EXT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon speeds through deep space, closely followed by a firing Imperial Star Destroyer. A large asteroid about the same size as the Falcon tumbles rapidly toward the starship. The tiny Falcon banks to avoid the giant asteroid as smaller rocks pelt its surface. Then the small craft roars under the asteroid which explodes harmlessly on the hull of the vast Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship shudders as flak explodes near the cockpit window. Threepio checks a tracking scope an the side control panel while Leia watches tensely out the window.

THREEPIO: Oh, thank goodness we're coming out of the asteroid field.

Chewie barks excitedly as the rain of asteroids begins to subside. A bolt from the Star Destroyer sets up a fiery explosion on the back side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch to one side.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon is hit hard by another bolt from the Star Destroyer which creates a huge explosion near the cockpit of the smaller ship. The Falcon tilts steeply, then rights itself.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han corrects the angle of his ship.

HAN: Let's get out of here. Ready for light-speed? One... two... three!

Han pulls back on the hyperspace throttle and - nothing happens. Flak bursts continue to rock the ship.

HAN: (frantic)
It's not fair!

Chewie is very angry and starts to growl and bark at his friend and captain. Again, Han desperately pulls back on the throttle.

HAN: The transfer circuits are working.
It's not my fault!

Chewie puts his head in his hands, whining.

LEIA: (almost expecting it)
No light-speed?

HAN: It's not my fault.

THREEPIO: Sir, we just lost the main rear deflector shield. One more direct hit on the back quarter and we're done for.

Han pauses for a moment, makes a decision, and pulls back on a lever.

HAN: Turn her around.

Chewie barks in puzzlement.

HAN: I said turn her around! I'm going to put all power in the front shield.

LEIA: You're going to attack them?!

THREEPIO: Sir, the odds of surviving a direct assault on an Imperial Star Destroyer...

LEIA: Shut up!

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon banks, makes a steep, twisting turn. In the next moment it is racing toward the Star Destroyer, looking very small against the massive surface of the Imperial ship. As it moves across the surface of the Star Destroyer, the Falcon bobs and weaves to avoid the numerous flak bursts.

INT. STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - BRIDGE

The tiny Falcon heads directly for the Avenger's bridge. The Imperials stationed there are stunned to see the small spaceship racing low across the hull, headed directly at the huge windows of the bridge area. Alarms go off everywhere. The Destroyer's commander, Captain Needa, can scarcely believe his eyes.

NEEDA: They're moving to attack position! Shields up!

Needa and his men duck as the Falcon nears the bridge window. At the last minute, the Falcon veers off and out of sight. All is quiet.

NEEDA: Track them. They may come around for another pass.

TRACKING OFFICER: Captain Needa, the ship no longer appears on our scopes.

NEEDA: They can't have disappeared. No ship that small has a cloaking device.

TRACKING OFFICER: Well, there's no trace of them, sir.

COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: Captain, Lord Vader demands an update on the pursuit.

NEEDA: (drawing a breath)
Get a shuttle ready. I shall assume full responsibility for losing them, and apologize to Lord Vader. Meanwhile, continue to scan the area.

COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: Yes, Captain Needa.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - DAY

Luke's face is upside-down and showing enormous strain. He stands on his hands, with Yoda perched on his feet. Opposite Luke and Yoda are two rocks the size of bowling balls. Luke stares at the rocks and concentrates. One of the rocks lifts from the ground and floats up to rest on the other.

YODA: Use the Force. Yes...

Yoda taps Luke's leg. Quickly, Luke lifts one hand from the ground. His body wavers, but he maintains his balance. Artoo, standing nearby, is whistling and beeping frantically.

YODA: Now... the stone. Feel it.

Luke concentrates on trying to lift the top rock. It rises a few feet, shaking under the strain. But, distracted by Artoo's frantic beeping, Luke loses his balance and finally collapses. Yoda jumps clear.

YODA: Concentrate!

Annoyed at the disturbance, Luke looks over at Artoo, who is rocking urgently back and forth in front of him.

Artoo waddles closer to Luke, chirping wildly, then scoots over the edge of the swamp. Catching on, Luke rushes to the water's edge. The X-wing fighter has sunk, and only the tip of its nose shows above the lake's surface.

LUKE: Oh, no. We'll never get it out now.

Yoda stamps his foot in irritation.

YODA: So certain are you. Always with you it cannot be done. Hear you nothing that I say?

Luke looks uncertainly out at the ship.

LUKE: Master, moving stones around is one thing. This is totally different.

YODA: No! No different! Only different in your mind. You must unlearn what you have learned.

LUKE: (focusing, quietly)
All right, I'll give it a try.

YODA: No! Try not. Do. Or do not. There is no try.

Luke closes his eyes and concentrates on thinking the ship out.

Slowly, the X-wing's nose begins to rise above the water. It hovers for a moment and then slides back, disappearing once again.

LUKE: (panting heavily)
I can't. It's too big.

YODA: Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you? Hm? Mmmm.

Luke shakes his head.

YODA: And well you should not. For my ally in the Force. And a powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we...
(Yoda pinches Luke's shoulder)
... not this crude matter.
(a sweeping gesture)
You must feel the Force around you.
(gesturing)
Here, between you... me... the tree... the rock... everywhere! Yes, even between this land and that ship!

LUKE: (discouraged)
You want the impossible.

Quietly Yoda turns toward the X-wing fighter. With his eyes closed and his head bowed, he raises his arm and points at the ship.

Soon, the fighter rises above the water and moves forward as Artoo beeps in terror and scoots away.

The entire X-wing moves majestically, surely, toward the shore. Yoda stands on a tree root and guides the fighter carefully down toward the beach.

Luke stares in astonishment as the fighter settles down onto the shore. He walks toward Yoda.

LUKE: I don't... I don't believe it.

YODA: That is why you fail.

Luke shakes his head, bewildered.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

The fleet around Vader's Star Destroyer now includes Needa's Star Destroyer, the Avenger.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

VADER: Apology accepted, Captain Needa.

Clutching desperately at his throat, Captain Needa slumps down, then falls over on his back, at the feet of Darth Vader. Two stormtroopers pick up the lifeless body and carry it quickly away as Admiral Piett and two of his captains hurry up to the Dark Lord.

PIETT: Lord Vader, our ships have completed their scan of the area and found nothing. If the Millennium Falcon went into light speed, it'll be on the other side of the galaxy by now.

VADER: Alert all commands. Calculate every possible destination along their last know trajectory.

PIETT: Yes, my lord. We'll find them.

VADER: Don't fail me again, Admiral.

Vader exits as the admiral turns to an aide, a little more uneasy than when he arrived.

PIETT: Alert all commands. Deploy the fleet.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

Vader's ship moves away, flanked by its fleet of smaller ships. the Avenger glides off into space in the opposite direction. No one on that ship or on Vader's is aware that, clinging to the side of the Avenger, is the pirateship, the Millennium Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

THREEPIO: Captain Solo, this time you have gone too far.
(Chewie growls)
No, I will not be quiet, Chewbacca.
Why doesn't anyone listen to me?

HAN: (to Chewie)
The fleet is beginning to break up. Go back and stand by the manual release for the landing claw.

Chewie barks, struggles from his seat, and climbs out of the cabin.

THREEPIO: I really don't see how that is going to help. Surrender is a perfectly acceptable alternative in extreme circumstances. The Empire may be gracious enough...

Leia reaches over and shuts off Threepio, mid-sentence.

HAN: Thank you.

LEIA: What did you have in mind for your next move?

HAN: Well, if they follow standard Imperial procedure, they'll dump their garbage before they go to light-speed, then we just float away.

LEIA: With the rest of the garbage.
Then what?

HAN: Then we've got to find a safe port somewhere around here. Got any ideas?

LEIA: No. Where are we?

HAN: The Anoat system.

LEIA: Anoat system. There's not much there.

HAN: No. Well, wait. This is interesting. Lando.

He points to a computer mapscreen on the control panel. Leia slips out of her chair and moves next to the handsome pilot. Small light points representing several systems flash by on the computer screen.

LEIA: Lando system?

HAN: Lando's not a system, he's a man.
Lando Calrissian. He's a card player, gambler, scoundrel. You'd like him.

LEIA: Thanks.

HAN: Bespin. It's pretty far, but I think we can make it.

LEIA: (reading from the computer)
A mining colony?

HAN: Yeah, a Tibanna gas mine. Lando conned somebody out of it. We go back a long way, Lando and me.

LEIA: Can you trust him?

HAN: No. But he has no love for the Empire, I can tell you that.

Chewie barks over the intercom. Han quickly changes his readouts and stretches to look out the cockpit window.

HAN: (into intercom)
Here we go, Chewie. Stand by.
Detach!

Han leans back in his chair and gives Leia an invisible smile. She thinks for a moment, shakes her head; a grin creeps across her face and she gives him a quick kiss.

LEIA: You do have your moments. Not many, but you have them.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

As the Avenger Star Destroyer moves slowly into space, the hatch on its underbelly opens, sending a trail of junk behind it. Hidden among the refuse, the Falcon tumbles away. In the next moment, the Avenger roars off into hyperspace. The Falcon's engines are ignited, and it races off into the distance. Amidst the slowly drifting junk, Boba Fett's ship appears and moves after the Falcon.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - CLEARING - DAY

In the clearing behind Yoda's house, Luke again stands upside-down, but his face shows less strain and more concentration than before. Yoda sits on the ground below the young warrior. On the other side of the clearing, two equipment cases slowly rise into the air. Nearby Artoo watches, humming to himself, when suddenly he, too, rises into the air. His little legs kick desperately and his head turns frantically, looking for help.

YODA: Concentrate... feel the Force flow. Yes. Good. Calm, yes. Through the Force, things you will see. Other places. The future... the past. Old friends long gone.

Luke suddenly becomes distressed.

LUKE: Han! Leia!

The two packing boxes and Artoo fall to the ground with a crash, then Luke himself tumbles over.

YODA: (shaking his head)
Hmm. Control, control. You must learn control.

LUKE: I saw... I saw a city in the clouds.

YODA: Mmm. Friends you have there.

LUKE: They were in pain.

YODA: It is the future you see.

LUKE: Future? Will they die?

Yoda closes his eyes and lowers his head.

YODA: Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future.

LUKE: I've got to go to them.

YODA: Decide you must how to serve them best. If you leave now, help them you could. But you would destroy all for which they have fought and suffered.

Luke is stopped cold by Yoda's words. Gloom shrouds him as he nods his head sadly.

EXT. BESPIN SYSTEM - MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAWN

The powerful pirate starship blasts through space as it heads toward the soft pink planet of Bespin.

EXT. BESPIN SURFACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is down on the gaseous planet. Huge billowing clouds form a canyon as the ship banks around them, heading toward the system's Cloud City.

Suddenly, two twin-pod cloud cars appear and move toward the Falcon. The cloud cars draw up alongside the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

One of the cloud cars opens fire on the Falcon, its flak rocking the ship. Chewie barks his concern.

HAN: (into transmitter)
No, I don't have a landing permit. I'm trying to reach Lando Calrissian.

More flak bursts outside the cockpit window and rattles the ship's interior. Leia looks worried.

HAN: (into transmitter)
Whoa! Wait a minute! Let me explain.

INTERCOM VOICE: You will not deviate from your present course.

THREEPIO: Rather touchy, aren't they?

LEIA: I thought you knew this person.

Chewie barks and growls at his boss.

HAN: (to Chewie)
Well, that was a long time ago.
I'm sure he's forgotten about that.

INTERCOM VOICE: Permission granted to land on Platform Three-two-seven.

HAN: (into transmitter)
Thank you.

Angry, Han snaps off the intercom. Chewie looks at him and grunts. Han turns to the worried princess and her droid.

HAN: There's nothing to worry about.
We go way back, Lando and me.

Leia doesn't look convinced.

LEIA: Who's worried?

EXT. CLOUD CITY - MILLENNIUM FALCON - CLOUD CARS

The clouds part to reveal a full view of the city as it bobs in and out of the cloud surface. The cloud cars and the Falcon head for the gleaming white metropolis.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - MILLENNIUM FALCON

With the cloud cars still guarding it, the Falcon lands on one of the Cloud City's platforms.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

Han and Leia stand at the open door, armed. Behind them, Chewie, also armed, surveys the scene warily.

THREEPIO: Oh. No one to meet us.

LEIA: I don't like this.

HAN: Well, what would you like?

THREEPIO: Well, they did let us land.

HAN: Look, don't worry. Everything's going to be fine. Trust me.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

Lando Calrissian, a suave, dashing black man in his thirties, leads a group of aides and some Cloud City guard rapidly toward the landing platform.

The group, like the other citizens of the city, is a motley collection of aliens, droids, and humans of all descriptions. Lando has a grim expression on his face as he moves onto the landing platform.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

HAN: See? My friend.
(to Chewie)
Keep your eyes open, okay?

Chewie growls as Han walks down the ramp. Lando and his men head across the bridge to meet the space pirate.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Lando stops ten feet from Han. The two men eye each other carefully. Lando shakes his head.

LANDO: Why, you slimy, double-crossing, no-good swindler! You've got a lot of guts coming here, after what you pulled.

Han points to himself innocently, mouthing, "Me?"

Lando moves threateningly toward Han. Suddenly, he throws his arms around his startled, long-lost friend and embraces him.

LANDO: (laughs)
How you doing, you old pirate? So good to see you! I never thought I'd catch up with you again. Where you been?

The two old friends embrace, laughing and chuckling.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON.

THREEPIO: Well, he seems very friendly.

LEIA: (wary)
Yes... very friendly.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

LANDO: What are you doing here?

HAN: (gestures toward the Falcon)
Ahh... repairs. I thought you could help me out.

LANDO: (in mock panic)
What have you done to my ship?

HAN: Your ship? Hey, remember, you lost her to me fair and square.

Chewie growls a reserved greeting. Lando suddenly notices the princess and smiles.

LANDO: Hello. What have we here? Welcome. I'm Lando Calrissian.
I'm the administrator of this facility. And who might you be?

LEIA: Leia.

LANDO: Welcome, Leia.

Lando bows before Leia and kisses her hand.

HAN: All right, all right, you old smoothie.

Han takes Leia by the hand and steers her away from Lando.

THREEPIO: Hello, sir. I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations. My facilities are at your...

Before Threepio can finish his self-introduction, Lando has turned to follow Han and Leia, who are walking toward the city.

THREEPIO: Well, really!

Lando, his aide, Lobot, and Han lead the way across the bridge, followed by Threepio, Chewie and Leia.

LANDO: What's wrong with the Falcon?

HAN: Hyperdrive.

LANDO: I'll get my people to work on it.

HAN: Good.

Lando turns to Leia.

LANDO: You know, that ship saved my life quite a few times. She's the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

The group has crossed the narrow bridge and entered the city. They walk down the lovely Art Deco passageway, rounding several corners and passing many small plazas as they go. Threepio lags a bit behind.

HAN: How's the gas mine? Is it paying off for you?

LANDO: Oh, not as well as I'd like.
We're a small outpost and not very self-sufficient. And I've had supply problems of every kind.
I've had labor difficulties...
(catches Han grinning at him)
What's so funny?

HAN: You. Listen to you - you sound like a businessman, a responsible leader. Who'd have thought that, huh?

Lando is reflective. He looks at Han a moment.

LANDO: You know, seeing you sure brings back a few things.

HAN: Yeah.

LANDO: (shakes his head)
Yeah. I'm responsible these days.
It's the price you pay for being successful.

Han and Lando laugh together, and the group moves on through the corridor.

The lagging Threepio passes a Threepio-type silver droid who is coming out of a door.

THREEPIO: Oh! Nice to see a familiar face.

SECOND THREEPIO: (mumbles)
E chu ta!

THREEPIO: How rude!

Threepio stops, watching the silver droid move away. Then he hears the muffled beeping and whistling of an R2 unit coming from within the room.

INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM

Curious, Threepio enters the room.

THREEPIO: That sounds like an R2 unit in there. I wonder if...

Threepio walks through the doorway to the main room. He looks in.

THREEPIO: Hello? How interesting. Oh, my.

MAN'S VOICE: (from within)
Who are you?

THREEPIO: Oh, I'm terribly sorry. I... I didn't mean to intrude. No, no, please don't get up. No!

A laser bolt to Threepio's chest sends him flying in twenty directions. Smoldering mechanical arms and legs bounce off the walls as the door whooshes closed behind him.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Lando, Han, and Leia continue down the corridor unaware of Threepio's dreadful accident. Chewbacca glances around, sniffs the air, but shrugs his shoulders and follows the group.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - DUSK

In the bright lights of the fighter, Luke loads a heavy case into the belly of the ship. Artoo sits on top of the X-wing, settling down into his cubbyhole. Yoda stands nearby on a log.

YODA: Luke! You must complete the training.

LUKE: I can't keep the vision out of my head. They're my friends. I've got to help them.

YODA: You must not go!

LUKE: But Han and Leia will die if I don't.

BEN'S VOICE: You don't know that.

Luke looks toward the voice in amazement. Ben has materialized as a real, slightly shimmering image near Yoda. The power of his presence stops Luke.

BEN: Even Yoda cannot see their fate.

LUKE: But I can help them! I feel the Force!

BEN: But you cannot control it. This is a dangerous time for you, when you will be tempted by the dark side of the Force.

YODA: Yes, yes. To Obi-Wan you listen.
The cave. Remember your failure at the cave!

LUKE: But I've learned so much since then. Master Yoda, I promise to return and finish what I've begun. You have my word.

BEN: It is you and your abilities the Emperor wants. that is why your friends are made to suffer.

LUKE: And that is why I have to go.

BEN: Luke, I don't want to lose you to the Emperor the way I lost Vader.

LUKE: You won't.

YODA: Stopped they must be. On this all depends. Only a fully trained Jedi Knight with the Force as his ally will conquer Vader and his Emperor. If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path, as Vader did, you will become an agent of evil.

BEN: Patience.

LUKE: And sacrifice Han and Leia?

YODA: If you honor what they fight for
... yes!

Luke is in great anguish. He struggles with the dilemma, a battle raging in his mind.

BEN: If you choose to face Vader, you will do it alone. I cannot interfere.

LUKE: I understand.
(he moves to his X-wing)
Artoo, fire up the converters.

Artoo whistles a happy reply.

BEN: Luke, don't give in to hate - that leads to the dark side.

Luke nods and climbs into his ship.

YODA: Strong is Vader. Mind what you have learned. Save you it can.

LUKE: I will. And I'll return. I promise.

Artoo closes the cockpit. Ben and Yoda stand watching as the roar of the engines and the wind engulf them.

YODA: (sighs)
Told you, I did. Reckless is he. Now matters are worse.

BEN: That boy is our last hope.

YODA: (looks up)
No. There is another.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET DAGOBAH

Luke's tiny X-wing rockets away from the green planet of Dagobah and off into space.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY

Within the quarters assigned her on Cloud City, Leia paces in agitation. She has changed from her cold-weather pants and jacket to a lovely dress. Her hair is down, tied back with ribbons. She moves from a large, open window and turns to see Han entering through the doorway.

HAN: The ship is almost finished.
Two or Three more things and we're in great shape.

LEIA: The sooner the better. Something's wrong here. No one has seen or knows anything about Threepio.
He's been gone too long to have gotten lost.

Han takes Leia by the shoulders and gently kisses her forehead.

HAN: Relax. I'll talk to Lando and see what I can find out.

LEIA: I don't trust Lando.

HAN: Well, I don't trust him, either.
But he is my friend. Besides, we'll soon be gone.

LEIA: And then you're as good as gone, aren't you?

Not speaking, Han considers her words and gazes at her troubled face.

INT. CLOUD CITY - JUNK ROOM

The room is piled high with broken and discarded machine parts. Four Ugnaughts, small hoglike creatures, separate the junk and throw some pieces onto a conveyer belt which moves briskly toward a pit of molten metal. Pieces of Threepio's golden body move down the belt. Chewie enters the room and spots an Ugnaught picking up and inspecting Threepio's head. The Wookiee barks a command, startling the Ugnaught, then reaches to grab the head. But the Ugnaught tosses it away from him to another Ugnaught. This game of keep-away goes on until Threepio's head falls from their grip and bounces with a clang onto the ground.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY

The door zaps open. Chewbacca walks in, carrying a packing case of Threepio, arms and legs hanging over the edge.

LEIA: What happened?

Chewie sets the case on a table, grunting and groaning an explanation.

HAN: Where? Found him in a junk pile?

LEIA: Oh, what a mess. Chewie, do you think you can repair him?

The giant Wookiee studies the array of robot parts. He looks at the princess and shrugs sadly.

HAN: Lando's got people who can fix him.

LEIA: No, thanks.

There is a buzz and the door slides open, revealing Lando.

LANDO: I'm sorry. Am I interrupting anything?

LEIA: Not really.

LANDO: You look absolutely beautiful.
You truly belong here with us among the clouds.

LEIA: (coolly)
Thank you.

LANDO: Will you join me for a little refreshment?

Han looks at Lando suspiciously, but Chewie barks at the mention of food and licks his lips.

LANDO: Everyone's invited, of course.

Leia takes Lando's proffered arm, and the group turns to go. Lando spots Threepio's remains.

LANDO: Having trouble with you droid?

Han and Leia exchange a quick glance.

HAN: No. No problem. Why?

Han and Leia move arm-in-arm through the door, followed by Lando and Chewie. The door slides closed behind them.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

Leia walks between Han and Lando as Chewie follows a short distance behind. Long shafts of light pour across the corridor between tall, pure-white columns.

LANDO: So you see, since we're a small operation, we don't fall into the... uh... jurisdiction of the Empire.

LEIA: So you're part of the mining guild then?

LANDO: No, not actually. Our operation is small enough not to be noticed... which is advantageous for everybody since our customers are anxious to avoid attracting attention to themselves.

The group walks into another corridor and heads for a huge doorway at the far end.

HAN: Aren't you afraid the Empire's going to find out about this little operation and shut you down?

LANDO: That's always been a danger looming like a shadow over everything we've built here. But things have developed that will insure security.
I've just made a deal that will keep the Empire out of here forever.

INT. CLOUD CITY - DINING ROOM

The mighty doors to the dining room slide open and the group enters the dining room. At the far end of a huge banquet table sits Darth Vader. Standing at his side and slightly behind him is Boba Fett, the bounty hunter.

Faster than the wink of an eye, Han draws his blaster and pops off a couple of shots directly at Vader. The Dark Lord quickly raises his hand, deflecting the bolts into one of the side walls, where they explode harmlessly. Just as quickly, Han's weapon zips into Vader's hand. The evil presence calmly places the gun on the table in front of him.

VADER: We would be honored if you would join us.

Han gives Lando a mean look.

LANDO: I had no choice. They arrived right before you did. I'm sorry.

HAN: I'm sorry, too.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING - BESPIN SYSTEM

Luke's X-wing races through thick clouds toward Cloud City.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is grim-faced as he pilots his course toward Bespin's shining city. Artoo's beeps and whistles are transmitted onto the scope.

LUKE: (into comlink)
No, Threepio's with them.

Artoo whistles another worried inquiry.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Just hang on. We're almost there.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LARGE CELL

Chewbacca is in a Cloud City prison cell. The stark room is flooded with hot light. To add to Chewie's misery, a high-pitched whistle screeches loudly. Chewie is going mad. He hits the wall with giant fists as he paces back and forth across the cell floor. The upper lights go off abruptly. The prisoner rubs his eyes and moves to a wall, where he listens for a moment. Then, moaning to himself, he moves to a platform where the disassembled pieces of Threepio lie. He picks up the golden droid's head and meditates on it for a moment, barking a few philosophical remarks. Chewie sticks the robot's head on its torso and starts adjusting wires and circuits.

Suddenly, the lights in Threepio's eyes spark to life as Chewie touches two connectors together. Threepio immediately begins to speak, but his voice is so slow and so low as to be nearly unintelligible.

THREEPIO: Mmmm. Oh, my. Uh, I, uh - Take this off! I, uh, don't mean to intrude here. I, don't, no, no, no... Please don't get up. No!

Chewie looks at Threepio in bewilderment, then scratches his furry head. He gets an idea and adjusts some connections, whereupon Threepio immediately begins speaking normally.

THREEPIO: Stormtroopers? Here? We're in danger. I must tell the others.
Oh, no! I've been shot!

INT. CLOUD CITY - PRISON ENTRY AREA

Darth Vader strides through the room as two stormtroopers prepare an elaborate torture mechanism. Han is strapped to a rack which tilts forward onto the torture device. Vader activates the mechanism, creating two bursts of sparks, one of which strikes Han's face.

The door opens, and Vader leaves the torture room just as Han screams a sharp, piercing cry of agony. Darth Vader moves to the holding chamber, where Lando and Boba Fett await him.

INT. CLOUD CITY - HOLDING CHAMBER

LANDO: Lord Vader.

VADER: (to Fett)
You may take Captain Solo to Jabba the Hut after I have Skywalker.

Han's screams filter through the torture room door.

BOBA FETT: He's no good to me dead.

VADER: He will not be permanently damaged.

LANDO: Lord Vader, what about Leia and the Wookiee?

VADER: They must never again leave this city.

LANDO: That was never a condition of our agreement, nor was giving Han to this bounty hunter!

VADER: Perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly.

LANDO: No.

VADER: Good. It would be unfortunate if I had to leave a garrison here.

Vader turns and sweeps into the elevator with Boba Fett. Lando walks swiftly down another corridor, muttering to himself.

LANDO: This deal's getting worse all the time.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LARGE CELL

Chewie now has a little more of Threepio back together. One arm is connected, but the legs are yet to be attached. There is one small problem, however. It seems the Wookiee has managed to put the droid's head on backwards.

THREEPIO: Oh, yes, that's very good. I like that. Oh! Something's not right because now I can't see. Wait. Wait! Oh, my! what have you done? I'm backwards, you stupid furball. Only an overgrown mophead like you would be stupid enough...

Threepio is cut off in mid-sentence as Chewie angrily deactivates a circuit and the droid shuts down. The Wookiee smells something and sits up. The door to the chamber slides open and a ragged Han Solo is shoved into the room by two stormtroopers. Barking his concern, the huge Wookiee gives Han a big hug. Han is very pale, with dark circles under his eyes.

HAN: I feel terrible.

Chewie helps Han to a platform and then turns as the door slides open revealing Leia. She, too, looks a little worse for wear. The troopers push her into the cell, and the door slides closed. She moves to Han, who is lying on the platform, and kneels next to him, gently stroking his head.

LEIA: Why are they doing this?

HAN: They never even asked me any questions.

The cell door slides open. Lando and two of his guards enter.

LEIA: Lando.

HAN: Get out of here, Lando!

LANDO: Shut up and listen! Vader has agreed to turn Leia and Chewie over to me.

HAN: Over to you?

LANDO: They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe.

LEIA: What about Han?

LANDO: Vader's giving him to the bounty hunter.

LEIA: Vader wants us all dead.

LANDO: He doesn't want you at all. He's after somebody called Skywalker.

HAN: Luke?

LANDO: Lord Vader has set a trap for him.

Leia's mind is racing.

LEIA: And we're the bait.

LANDO: Well, he's on his way.

Han's rage peaks.

HAN: Perfect. You fixed us all pretty good, didn't you?
(spits it out)
My friend!

Han hauls off and punches Lando. The two friends are instantly engaged in a frantic close-quarters fight. The guards hit Han with their rifle butts and he flies across the room. Chewie growls and starts for the guards. They point their laser weapons at the giant Wookiee, but Lando stops them.

LANDO: Stop! I've done all I can. I'm sorry I couldn't do better, but I have my own problems.

HAN: Yeah, you're a real hero.

Lando and the guards leave. Han wipes the blood from his chin as Leia and Chewie help him up.

LEIA: (dabs at his wound)
You certainly have a way with people.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Four armor-suited stormtroopers stand at the ready in the large chamber, which is filled with pipes and chemical tanks. In the middle of the room is a round pit housing a hydraulic platform. Darth Vader and Lando stand near the platform.

VADER: This facility is crude, but it should be adequate to freeze Skywalker for his journey to the Emperor.

An Imperial soldier appears.

IMPERIAL SOLDIER: Lord Vader, ship approaching.
X-wing class.

VADER: Good. Monitor Skywalker and allow him to land.

The soldier bows and leaves the chamber.

LANDO: Lord Vader, we only use this facility for carbon freezing. If you put him in there, it might kill him.

VADER: I do not want the Emperor's prize damaged. We will test it... on Captain Solo.

Lando's face registers dismay.

EXT. SPACE - BESPIN SYSTEM - LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's X-wing moves through the clouds as it nears the city.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Encountering no city guards, Luke scans the display panel with concern.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

There is a great activity on the carbon-freezing platform. Six Ugnaughts frantically prepare the chamber for use. A special coffinlike container is put in place. With Boba Fett in the lead, a squad of six stormtroopers brings in Han, Leia and Chewie. Strapped to Chewie's back, with only his head, torso, and one arm assembled, is Threepio. Threepio's head faces the opposite direction from Chewie's and the droid is constantly twisting around in a vain effort to see what is happening. His one attached arm is animate and expressive, intermittently pointing, gesturing, and covering his eyes. The remaining pieces of his body are randomly bundled to the Wookiee's back so that his legs and other arm stick out at odd angles from the pack.

THREEPIO: If only you had attached my legs, I wouldn't be in this ridiculous position. Now, remember, Chewbacca, you have a responsibility to me, so don't do anything foolish.

HAN: (to Lando)
What's going on... buddy?

LANDO: You're being put into carbon freeze.

Boba Fett moves away from the group to Darth Vader.

BOBA FETT: What if he doesn't survive? He's worth a lot to me.

VADER: The Empire will compensate you if he dies. Put him in!

Realizing what is about to happen, Chewie lets out a wild howl and attacks the stormtroopers surrounding Han. Within seconds, other Imperial reinforcements join the scuffle, clubbing the giant Wookiee with their laser weapons.

From the instant of Chewie's first move, Threepio begins to scream in panic while he tries to protect himself with his one arm.

THREEPIO: Oh, no! No, no, no! Stop, Chewbacca, stop...!

The stormtroopers are about to bash Chewie in the face.

HAN: Stop, Chewie, stop! Do you hear me? Stop!

THREEPIO: Yes, stop, please! I'm not ready to die.

Han breaks away from his captors. Vader nods to the guards to let him go and the pirate breaks up the fight.

HAN: Chewie! Chewie, this won't help me. Hey!

Han gives the Wookiee a stern look.

HAN: Save your strength. There'll be another time. The princess - you have to take care of her. You hear me?

Han winks at the Wookiee, who wails a doleful farewell.

In a flash the guards have slipped binders on Chewbacca, who is too distraught to protest. Han turns to Princess Leia. They look sorrowfully at one another, then Han moves toward her and gives her a final, passionate kiss.

LEIA: I love you!

HAN: I know.

Tears roll down Leia's face as she watches the dashing pirate walk to the hydraulic platform. Han looks one final time at his friends - and then, suddenly, the platform drops. Chewie howls. Leia turns away in agony.

Lando winces in sorrow; it makes a life-changing impression on him.

Instantly, fiery liquid begins to pour down in a shower of sparks and fluid as great as any steel furnace. Holding Leia, Chewie half-turns away from the sight, giving Threepio a view of the procedure.

THREEPIO: What... what's going on? Turn round, Chewbacca, I can't see. Oh... they've encased him in carbonite. He should be quite well-protected - if he survives the freezing process, that is.

Chewie is in no mood for technical discussion; he gives the droid an angry glance and bark.

A huge mechanical tong lifts the steaming metal-encased space pirate out of the vat and stands him on the platform. Some Ugnaughts rush over and push the block over onto the platform. They slide the coffinlike structure to the block and lift the metal block, placing it inside. They then attach an electronic box onto the structure and step away. Lando kneels and adjusts some knobs, measuring the heat. He shakes his head in relief.

VADER: Well, Calrissian, did he survive?

LANDO: Yes, he's alive. And in perfect hibernation.

Vader turns to Boba Fett.

VADER: He's all yours bounty hunter.
Reset the chamber for Skywalker.

IMPERIAL OFFICER: Skywalker has just landed, my lord.

VADER: Good. See to it that he finds his way here. Calrissian, take the princess and the Wookiee to my ship.

LANDO: You said they'd be left in the city under my supervision.

VADER: I am altering the deal. Pray I don't alter it any further.

Lando's hand instinctively goes to his throat as he turns to Leia, Chewie, and Threepio.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

As Luke and Artoo move carefully down a deserted corridor, they hear a group of people coming down a side hallway. Artoo lets out an excited series of beeps and whistles. Luke glares at the tiny droid, who stops in his tracks with a feeble squeak.

Boba Fett enters from a side hallway followed by two guards pushing the floating, encased body of Han Solo. Two stormtroopers, who follow, immediately spot Luke and open fire on him. The youth draws his weapon and blasts the two troopers before they can get off a second shot. The two guards whisk Han into another hallway as Fett lowers his arm and fires a deadly laser at Luke, which explodes to one side and tears up a huge chunk of wall.

Luke rushes to a side hallway, but by the time he reaches it, Fett, Han, and the guards are gone. A think metal door blocks the passage. Luke turns to see Leia, Chewie, Threepio, and Lando being herded down a second hallway by several other stormtroopers. Leia turns just in time to see Luke.

LEIA: Luke! Luke, don't - it's a trap! It's a trap!

Before she can finish, she is pulled through a doorway and disappears from sight. Luke races after the group, leaving little Artoo trailing behind.

INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM

Luke runs into an anteroom and stops to get his bearings. Leia and the others are nowhere to be seen. Behind Luke, Artoo scoots down the corridor toward the anteroom when suddenly a giant metal door comes slamming down, cutting off Luke's exit. Several more doors clang shut, echoing through the chamber.

INT. CLOUD CITY - HALLWAY LEADING TO ANTEROOM

Artoo stands with his nose pressed against the giant metal door. He whistles a long sigh of relief and, a little dazed, wanders off in the other direction.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER - ANTEROOM

Luke cautiously walks forward among hissing pipes and steam. Seeing an opening above him, he stops to look up. As he does, the platform he stands on begins to move.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke rises into the chamber, borne by the platform. The room is deathly quiet. Very little steam escapes the pipes and no one else seems to be in the large room. Warily, Luke walks toward the stairway.

Steam begins to build up in the chamber. Looking up through the steam, Luke sees a dark figure standing on a walkway above him. Luke holsters his gun and moves up the stairs to face Vader. He feels confident, eager to engage his enemy.

VADER: The Force is with you, young Skywalker. But you are not a Jedi yet.

Luke ignites his sword in answer. In an instant, Vader's own sword is lit. Luke lunges, but Vader repels the blow. Again Luke attacks, and the swords of the two combatants clash in battle.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Leia, Lando, and Chewie, with Threepio on his back, march along, guarded by six stormtroopers. The group reaches an intersection where Lobot and a dozen of Lando's guards stand at attention.

The guards immediately aim their weapons at the startled stormtroopers. Taking the stormtroopers' weapons from them, Lobot hands one to Leia and one to Lando.

LANDO: Well done. Hold them in the security tower - and keep it quiet. Move.

As Lando's guards quickly march the stormtroopers away, Lando begins to undo Chewie's binding.

LEIA: What do you think you're doing?

LANDO: We're getting out of here.

THREEPIO: I knew all along it had to be a mistake.

Chewie turns on Lando and starts to choke him.

LEIA: Do you think that after what you did to Han we're going to trust you?

Lando tries to free himself from Chewie.

LANDO: (choking)
I had no choice...

Chewie barks ferociously.

THREEPIO: (to Chewie)
What are you doing? Trust him, trust him!

LEIA: Oh, so we understand, don't we, Chewie? He had no choice.

LANDO: I'm just trying to help...

LEIA: We don't need any of your help.

LANDO: (choking)
H-a-a-a...

LEIA: What?

THREEPIO: It sounds like Han.

LANDO: There's still a chance to save Han... I mean, at the East Platform...

LEIA: Chewie.

Chewie finally releases Lando, who fights to get his breath back.

THREEPIO: (to Lando)
I'm terribly sorry about all this. After all, he's only a Wookiee.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - EAST LANDING PLATFORM - BOBA FETT'S SHIP

The two guards slide Han's encased body into an opening in the side of the bounty hunter's ship. Boba Fett climb aboard on a ladder next to the cargo hold.

BOBA FETT: Put Captain Solo in the cargo hold.

And with that, the door slams shut.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Lando, Leia, and Chewie run down a Cloud City corridor when suddenly they spot Artoo who rushes toward them, beeping wildly.

THREEPIO: Artoo! Artoo! Where have you been?

Chewie turns around to see the stubby droid, causing Threepio to be spun out of sight of his friend.

THREEPIO: Turn around, you wooly...! (to Artoo)
Hurry, hurry! We're trying to save Han from the bounty hunter!

Whistling frantically to Threepio, Artoo scoots along with the racing group.

THREEPIO: Well, at least your still in one piece! Look what happened to me!

EXT. EAST LANDING PLATFORM - SIDE BAY

An elevator door slides open and Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca race for a large bay overlooking the East Landing Platform.

Just as they arrive, Boba Fett's ship takes off against a cloudy sunset sky. 
In wild anguish, Chewie howls and starts firing at the ship.

THREEPIO: Oh, no! Chewie, they're behind you!

A laser bolt explodes near the princess. Everyone turns to see what Threepio has already spotted coming from the other direction; a squad of stormtroopers running toward them. Artoo peeks out from the elevator.

Leia and Chewbacca start firing at the troopers as Lando makes a break for the elevator. Laser bolts continue to explode around the princess and the Wookiee, but they refuse to budge. Lando sticks his head out of the elevator and motions for the pair to run, but they barely notice. They seem possessed, transported, as all the frustration of captivity and anger of loss pour through their death-dealing weapons.

But after a few moments, they begin to move through the rain of laser fire toward the elevator. Once they are inside, the door slams shut and the stormtroopers race forward.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke and Vader are locked in combat on the platform overlooking the chamber. Their swords clash, the platform sways. Luke aggressively drives Vader back, forcing Vader to use defensive tactics.

VADER: You have learned much, young one.

LUKE: You'll find I'm full of surprises.

Vader makes two quick moves, hooking Luke's sword out of his hand and sending it flying. Another lightning move at Luke's feet forces the youth to jump back to protect himself. Losing his balance, Luke rolls down the stairs to the circular carbon-freezing platform. There he sprawls on the floor, surprised and shaken. Just in time he looks up to see Vader, like a giant black bird, flying right at him. Luke rolls away as Vader lands. Crouching, Luke keeps his gaze steadily on his enemy.

VADER: Your destiny lies with me, Skywalker. Obi-Wan knew this to be true.

LUKE: No!

Behind Luke the hydraulic elevator cover has opened noiselessly. All the while, Luke slowly, cautiously moves back, away from the Dark Lord.

Suddenly, Vader attacks so forcefully that Luke loses his balance and falls back into the opening. There is a rumble, and in an instant freezing steam rises to obscure Vader's vision.Vader turns aside and deactivates his sword.

VADER: All to easy. Perhaps you are not as strong as the Emperor thought.

Through the steam behind Vader something blurs upward. Liquid metal begins to pour into the pit.

Vader turns around - and then looks up. He sees Luke, who has leaped fifteen feet straight up and who now hangs from some hoses on the carbonite outlet.

VADER: Impressive... most impressive.

Luke jumps down to the platform where he is separated from Vader by the steaming carbonite pit. He raises his hand. His sword, which had fallen on another part of the platform, swiftly jumps into his outstretched hand and is instantly ignited. Vader immediately lights his sword as well.

VADER: Obi-Wan has taught you well. You have controlled your fear... now release your anger.

Luke is more cautious, controlling his anger. He begins to retreat as Vader goads him on. As Luke takes a defensive position, he realizes he has been foolhardy. A quick sword exchange and Luke forces Vader back. Another exchange and Vader retreats. Luke presses forward.

VADER: Only your hatred can destroy me.

Breathing hard, Luke jumps in the air, turning a somersault over Vader. He lands on the floor and slashes at Vader as the room continues to fill up with steam.

Vader retreats before Luke's skillful sword. Vader blocks the sword, but looses his balance and falls into the outer rim of pipes. The energy Luke has used to stop Vader has brought him to the point of collapse. Luke moves to the edge and looks down, but sees no sign of Vader. He then deactivates his sword, hooks it on his belt, and lowers himself into the pit.

INT. CLOUD CITY - TUNNEL AND REACTOR CONTROL ROOM

Moving through a tunnellike entrance, Luke cautiously approaches the reactor room. He ignites his sword and moves into the room and toward a large window as Vader enters.

Luke raises his sword and moves forward to attack.

Behind Luke a large piece of machinery detaches itself from the wall and comes smashing forward toward his back. Luke turns and cuts it in half just as another machine comes hurtling at him. Using the Force, Luke manages to deflect it and send it flying as if it had hit an invisible shield.

A large pipe detaches and comes flying at Luke. He deflects it. Sparking wires pull out of the wall and begin to whip at the youth. Small tools and equipment come flying at him. Bombardment from all sides, Luke does his best to deflect everything, but soon he is bloodied and bruised. Finally, one machine glances off his and goes flying out the large window. A fierce wind blows into the room, unmoving, stands the dark, rocklike figure of Vader.

A piece of machinery hits Luke and he is knocked out of the window.

INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT

Luke falls onto the gantry, rolls, and hangs over the edge, holding his deactivated sword in hand. He puts the sword on his belt and begins to scramble up.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR LEADING TO LANDING PLATFORM

Leia, Lando, Chewie and the droids come round a corner and head for the door to the landing platform. They glimpse the Millennium Falcon for a moment before the door slams shut. The group ducks into an alcove as stormtroopers arrive at the end of the corridor. The troopers send a rain of laser bolts at the group. Chewie returns their fire as Lando punches desperately at the door's control panel.

LANDO: The security codes has been changed!

THREEPIO: Artoo, you can tell the computer to override the security system.

Threepio points to a computer socket on the control panel. Artoo beeps and scoots toward it. Lando meanwhile has connected up to the panel's intercom.

LANDO: Attention! This is Lando Calrissian. The Empire has takes control of the city. I advise everyone to leave before more Imperial troops arrive.

Artoo takes off a computer cover and sticks his computer arm into the socket. Suddenly, a short beep turns into a wild scream. Artoo's circuits light up, his head spins wildly, and smoke begins to seep out underneath him. Quickly, Chewie pulls him away.

LANDO: This way.

Lando, Leia, Artoo, and Chewie flee down the corridor. As he scoots along with them, Artoo sends some angry beeps Threepio's way.

THREEPIO: Don't blame me. I'm an interpreter. I'm not supposed to know a power socket from a computer terminal.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

In a panic, Cloud City residents are trying to get out of the city. Some carry boxes, others packages. They run, then change direction. Some are shooting at stormtroopers, others simply try to hide.

Other stormtroopers pursue Lando, Leia, and Chewie who are firing back at them. Artoo works on another door to the landing platform while Threepio berates him for his seeming ineptitude.

THREEPIO: What are you talking about? We're not interested in the hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon. It's fixed! Just open the door, you stupid lump.

Chewie, Leia, and Lando retreat along the corridor. A triumphant beep from Artoo - and the door snaps open.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo)
I never doubted you for a second.
Wonderful!

Artoo lays a cloud fog, obscuring everything, as the group dashes outside.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - CLOUD CITY - DUSK

They race for the Millennium Falcon as a battalion of stormtroopers reaches the main door. Lando and Leia hold off the troops as the droids get on board with Chewie. As Chewie bounds to the ship the Threepio on his back, Threepio hits his head on the top of the ramp.

THREEPIO: Ouch! Oh! Ah! That hurt. Bend down, you thoughtless... Ow!

Chewie starts up the ship. The giant engines begin to whine as Lando and Leia race up the ramp under a hail of laser fire.

LANDO: Leia! Go!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CORRIDOR

Artoo drags the partially assembled Threepio down the corridor of the Falcon.

THREEPIO: I thought that hairy beast would be the end of me. Of course, I've looked better.

Artoo beeps understandingly.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie works the controls as Leia sits in Han's seat and Lando watches over their shoulders. As Chewie pulls back on the throttle, the ship begins to move.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - DUSK

The Millennium Falcon lifts gracefully into the twilight sky and roars away from the city. Troops fire after it and TIE fighters take off in pursuit.

INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT

Luke moves along the railing and up to the control room.

Vader lunges at him and Luke immediately raises his lit sword to meet Vader's. Sparks fly as they duel, Vader gradually forcing Luke backward toward the gantry.

VADER: You are beaten. It is useless to resist. Don't let yourself be destroyed as Obi-Wan did.

Luke answers by rolling sideways and thrusting his sword at Vader so viciously that he nicks Vader on the shoulder. The black armor sparks and smokes and Vader seems to be hurt, but immediately recovers.

Luke backs off along the narrow end of the gantry as Vader comes at him, slashing at the young Jedi with his sword. Luke makes a quick move around the instrument complex attached to the end of the gantry. Vader's sword comes slashing down, cutting the complex loose; it begins to fall, then is caught by the rising wind and blown upward.

Luke glances at the instrument complex floating away. At that instant, Vader's sword comes down across Luke's right forearm, cutting off his hand and sending his sword flying. In great pain, Luke squeezes his forearm under his left armpit and moves back along the gantry to its extreme end. Vader follows. The wind subsides. Luke holds on. There is nowhere else to go. 
VADER: There is no escape. Don't make me destroy you. You do not yet realize your importance. You have only begun to discover your power. Join me and I will complete your training. With our combined strength, we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the galaxy.

LUKE: I'll never join you!

VADER: If you only knew the power of the dark side. Obi-Wan never told you what happened to your father.

LUKE: He told me enough! It was you who killed him.

VADER: No. I am your father.

Shocked, Luke looks at Vader in utter disbelief.

LUKE: No. No. That's not true! That's impossible!

VADER: Search your feelings. You know it to be true.

LUKE: No! No! No!

VADER: Luke. You can destroy the Emperor.
He has foreseen this. It is your destiny. Join me, and together we can rule the galaxy as father and son. Come with me. It is the only way.

Vader puts away his sword and holds his hand out to Luke.

A calm comes over Luke, and he makes a decision. In the next instant he steps off the gantry platform into space. The Dark Lord looks over the platform and sees Luke falling far below. The wind begins to blow at Vader's cape and the torrent finally forces him back, away from the edge. The wind soon fades and the wounded Jedi begins to drop fast, unable to grab onto anything to break his fall.

INT. REACTOR SHAFT

Suddenly Luke is sucked into an exhaust pipe in the side of the shaft. When Vader sees this, he turns and hurries off the platform.

INT. EXHAUST PIPE

Luke tumbles through the exhaust pipe.

He slides to the end of the slickly polished pipe and stops as his feet hit a circular grill and knock it open. Luke claws at the surface of the pipe, trying to keep from sliding out into space.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE - DUSK

Unable to hang onto the pipe, Luke tumbles out, emerging at the undermost part of Cloud City. Reaching out desperately, he manages to grab onto on electronic weather vane.

LUKE: Ben... Ben, please!

Luke tries to pull himself up on the weather vane but slips back down. He hooks one of his legs around the fragile instruments. All the while, a powerful current of air rushes out at him from the exhaust pipe.

LUKE: Ben. Leia!

There is an ominous cracking sound from the base of the weather vane and a piece breaks off, falling into the clouds far below.

LUKE: Hear me! Leia!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia seems to be lost in a fog, her expression troubled. Chewie is busy operating the ship. Lando stands next to the Wookiee, watching a readout on the control panel.

LEIA: Luke... We've got to go back.

Chewie growls in surprise.

LANDO: What?

LEIA: I know where Luke is.

LANDO: But what about those fighter?

Chewie barks in agreement with Lando.

LEIA: Chewie, just do it.

LANDO: But what about Vader?

Chewie turns on Lando, the newcomer, with an ominous growl.

LANDO: All right, all right, all right.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - MILLENNIUM FALCON - DUSK

The Falcon makes a graceful banking turn back toward Cloud City.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Vader enters the landing platform and watches as the speck that is the Falcon disappears. The wind blows at his cape.

He turns to two aides who are standing near the entrance to the landing platform.

VADER: Bring my shuttle.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE

Nearly unconscious, Luke hangs upside-down on the weather vane as his body shifts in the wind.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon dives to the underside of the floating city. Three TIE fighter close in on the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Leia tries to remain calm.

LANDO: (pointing out the cockpit window)
Look, someone's up there.

LEIA: It's Luke. Chewie, slow down.
Slow down and we'll get under him.
Lando, open the top hatch.

Lando rushes out of the cockpit.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE

Luke hangs by one arm from the crossbar of the weather vane. He slips from the bar and grabs onto the pole of the vane as the Falcon banks toward him. The Falcon positions itself under Luke as Lando moves up through the opening of the hatch. Luke begins to slide and finally falls from the vane into space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Out the cockpit window, Leia sees Luke falling from the bottom of the city. The ship gains on him.

LEIA: Okay. Easy, Chewie.

The Falcon closes in on Luke.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

Three TIE fighters race toward the Falcon, firing away.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HATCH

The hatch pops open with a hiss of pressure. Lando reaches out to help the battered warrior inside the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Flak bursts all around it as the Falcon banks away from the city. Leia and Chewie struggle with the controls.

LEIA: (into intercom)
Lando?

LANDO: (over intercom)
Okay, let's go.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon races away. It is closely followed by three TIE fighters, all of which keep up a heavy laser assault on the fleeing starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Explosions erupt all around the cockpit, buffeting the ship wildly. Chewie howls as he frantically tries to control the ship.

Leia and Chewie turns to see Luke, bloody and battered, enter the cockpit supported by Lando. Leia jumps up and hugs him while Chewie barks in joyous relief.

LUKE: Oh, Leia.

LANDO: All right, Chewie. Let's go.

Leia helps Luke from the cockpit as another huge blast rocks the ship.

EXT. SPACE - CLOUD CITY - DAY

The Falcon, still followed by the three TIE fighters, races away from the cloud-covered city.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke rests on a cot, his injured arm wrapped in a protective cuff. Leia gently wipes his face. The ship lurches again.

LEIA: I'll be back.

She kisses him, then leaves the quarters.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

All over the ship muted alarm buzzers sound. Lando anxiously watches the flashing lights on the control panel and hurriedly adjusts some switches. Seated next to him, Chewie points out a new blip appearing on the panel. Leia, watching over their shoulders, recognizes the shape.

LEIA: Star Destroyer.

LANDO: All right, Chewie. Ready for light-speed.

LEIA: If your people fixed the hyperdrive.

Another explosion rocks the ship. Leia notices as a green light on the panel next to her flashes on.

LEIA: All the coordinates are set.
It's now or never.

Chewie barks in agreement.

LANDO: Punch it!

The Wookiee shrugs and pulls back on the light-speed throttle. The sound of the ion engine changes...it is winding up. Faces are tense, expectant. But nothing happens, and the engine goes off. Chewie lets out a frustrated howl. The flak still violently rocks the ship.

LANDO: They told me they fixed it. I trusted them to fix it. It's not my fault!

Chewie gets up from his chair and starts out of the cockpit. He gives Lando and angry shove as he storms past him.

EXT. SPACE

In the distance the TIE fighters continue their chase, still shooting lasers. Vader's Star Destroyer moves behind them, determinedly following the Falcon.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge looking out the window as Admiral Piett approaches him.

PIETT: They'll be in range of our tractor beam in moments, my lord.

VADER: Did your men deactivate the hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon?

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

VADER: Good. Prepare the boarding party and set your weapons for stun.

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Beeping while he works, Artoo is busy connecting some wires to Threepio who now has one leg attached. 
Chewie enters through the doorway, grunting to himself.

THREEPIO: Noisy brute. Why don't we just go into light-speed?

Artoo beeps in response.

THREEPIO: We can't? How would you know the hyperdrive is deactivated?

Artoo whistles knowingly.

THREEPIO: The city's central computer told you? Artoo-Detoo, you know better than to trust a strange computer.
Ouch! Pay attention to what you're doing!

Chewie is in the pit. He is trying to loosen something with an enormous wrench. Frustrated, he uses the wrench like a club and hits the panel...

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia and Lando, seated in front of the control panel, are suddenly sprayed by a shower of sparks.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge, watching as the Millennium Falcon is chased by the TIE fighters. As his Destroyer draws nearer, Vader's breathing gets slightly faster.

VADER: Luke.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke realizes that Vader's ship is very near. He feels resigned to his fate. He senses that he is beaten, more emotionally than physically.

LUKE: Father.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

VADER: Son, come with me.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

LUKE: (moaning)
Ben, why didn't you tell me?

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Leia are at the controls of the Falcon. Meanwhile, in the ship's hold, Chewie continues to work frantically on the hyperdrive mechanism.

LANDO: (into intercom)
Chewie!

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon races through space followed very closely by the TIE fighters and the huge Imperial Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Luke enters the cockpit and looks out the window. He is almost unconscious with pain and depression.

LUKE: It's Vader.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

VADER: Luke... it is your destiny.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

LUKE: Ben, why didn't you tell me?

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

PIETT: Alert all commands. Ready for the tractor beam.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

Artoo races to a control panel and starts working on a circuit board. Furious, Threepio stands on one leg, yelling.

THREEPIO: Artoo, come back at once! You haven't finished with me yet!
You don't know how to fix the hyperdrive. Chewbacca can do it. I'm standing here in pieces, and you're having delusions of grandeur!

Artoo moves a circuit on a control panel. Suddenly, the control panel lights up.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia and Lando are thrown into their seats as the Millennium Falcon unexpectedly shoot into hyperspace.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

The ship tilts up and Artoo topples into the pit on top of Chewie.

THREEPIO: Oh, you did it!

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon soars into infinity and away from the huge Star Destroyer which seems, by contrast, to stand still.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and another captain glance at Vader in terror. Vader turns slowly and walks off the bridge, his hands held behind his back in a contemplative gesture.

EXT. SPACE - REBEL CRUISER

The Millennium Falcon is attached to a huge Rebel cruiser by a docking tube. Rebel fighters move about the giant cruiser, and a Rebel transport ship hovers near the fleet.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando sits in the pilot's seat as he talks into the comlink. Chewie busily throws a variety of switches in preparation for takeoff.

LANDO: (into comlink)
Luke, we're ready for takeoff.

LUKE: (over comlink)
Good luck, Lando

LANDO: (into comlink)
When we find Jabba the Hut and that bounty hunter, we'll contact you.

INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER

Luke speaking into the comlink as a medical droid works on his hand. Leia stands near him while Threepio and Artoo look out the window.

LUKE: (into comlink)
I'll meet you at the rendezvous point on Tatooine.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

LANDO: (into comlink)
Princess, we'll find Han. I promise.

INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER

LUKE: (into comlink)
Chewie, I'll be waiting for your signal.

Chewie's wail comes over the comlink.

LUKE: (into comlink)
Take care, you two. May the Force be with you.

Luke looks down at his hand. A metalized type of bandage has been wrapped around his wrist. The medical droid makes some adjustments in a tiny electronic unit, then pricks each one of Luke's fingers.

LUKE: Ow!

Luke wriggles his fingers, makes a fist, and relaxes it. His hand is completely functional.

He gets up and walks over to Leia. There is a new bond between them, a new understanding. Leia is thinking about Han; Luke is thinking about his uncertain and newly complicated future. Together they stand at the large window of the medical center looking out on the Rebel Star Cruiser and a dense, luminous galaxy swirling in space.

Luke puts his arm around Leia. The droids stand next to them, and Threepio moves closer to Artoo putting his arm on him. The group watches as the Millennium Falcon moves into view, makes a turn, and zooms away into space.

EXT. SPACE - REBEL STAR CRUISER

While Luke, Leia, and the droids stand, looking out the window of the star cruiser, two escort fighters join the large ship. Slowly, the cruiser turns and moves away into space.

DISSOLVE TO 
EXT. GALAXY - SPACE

END CREDITS FADE IN AND OUT OVER BACKGROUND

THE END

RETURN OF THE JEDI

SPACE 
The boundless heavens serve as a back-drop for the MAIN TITLE, followed by a ROLL-UP, which crawls into infinity.

Episode VI: RETURN OF THE JEDI

Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of thevile gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy...

PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its massive superstructure curling away from the completed section like the arms of a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast, floats the small, green moon of ENDOR.

An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive armored space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A small Imperial shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and hustles toward the Death Star.

INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN: Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting our approach. Deactivate the security shield.

DEATH STAR CONTROLLER (filtered VO)
The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to proceed.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN: We're starting our approach.

INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible deflector shield.

A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.

OFFICER: Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.

OPERATOR: Yes, sir.

The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.

INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident technocrat, strides through the assembled troops to the base of the shuttle ramp. The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy about the new arrival. But the Death Star commander stands arrogantly tall.

The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From this black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader looks over the assemblage as he walks down the ramp.

JERJERROD: Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your presence.

VADER: You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you back on schedule.

The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.

JERJERROD: I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.

VADER: Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.

JERJERROD: I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.

VADER: The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.

JERJERROD: But he asks the impossible. I need more men.

VADER: Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.

JERJERROD (aghast)
The Emperor's coming here?

VADER: That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your apparent lack of progress.

JERJERROD: We shall double our efforts.

VADER: I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as I am.

EXT ROAD TO JABBA'S PALACE - TATOOINE

A lonely, windswept road meanders through the desolate Tatooine terrain. We HEAR a familiar BEEPING and a distinctive reply before catching sight of ARTOO-DETOO and SEE-THREEPIO, making their way along the road toward the ominous palace of Jabba the Hutt.

THREEPIO: Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. Lando Calrissian and poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place.

Artoo whistles timidly.

THREEPIO: Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things I've heard about this Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.

The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.

THREEPIO: Artoo, are you sure this is the right place? I better knock, I suppose.

EXT JABBA'S PALACE - GATE 
Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then timidly knocks on the iron door.

THREEPIO (instantly) There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master Luke.

A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery mechanical arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects the two droids.

STRANGE VOICE: Tee chuta hhat yudd!

THREEPIO: Goodness gracious me!

 Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.

 THREEPIO: Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt.

The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then the eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his concern.

THREEPIO: I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd better go.

Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at one another, afraid to enter.

Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.

THREEPIO Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really don't think we should rush into all this.

Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.

THREEPIO: Oh, Artoo! Artoo, wait for me!

INT JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY

The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the dark passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant, green GAMORREAN GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances quickly back at the two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One guard grunts an order. Artoo beeps nervously.

THREEPIO: Just you deliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here. Oh my! Oh! Oh, no.

Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a humanlike alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.

BIB: Die Wanna Wanga!

THREEPIO: Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a message to your master, Jabba the Hutt.

Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.

THREEPIO (cont)
...and a gift.
(thinks a moment, then to Artoo)
Gift, what gift?

Bib shakes his head negatively.

BIB: Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.

Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the strange-looking alien.

THREEPIO: He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself.

Bib thinks about this for a moment.

THREEPIO: I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort of things.

Bib gestures for the droids to follow.

BIB: Nudd Chaa.

The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed by the two guards.

THREEPIO: Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.

INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque CREATURES ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem very small as they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber. Light shafts partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna crosses the room to the platform upon which rests the leader of this nauseating crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of the galactic underworld is a repulsive blob of bloated fat with a maniacal grin. Chained to the horrible creature is the beautiful alien female dancer named OOLA. At the foot of the dais sits an obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS CRUMB. Bib whispers something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba laughs horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows politely.

THREEPIO: Good morning.

JABBA: Bo Shuda!

The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned villain.

THREEPIO: The message, Artoo, the message.

Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.

LUKE: Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's life. (Jabba's crowd laughs) With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: these two droids.

Threepio is startled by this announcement.

THREEPIO: What did he say?

LUKE (cont)
... Both are hardworking and will serve you well.

THREEPIO: This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the wrong message.

Luke's hologram disappears.

Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain.

THREEPIO: We're doomed.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he is.

Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the throne. Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw him last, is a carbonized HAN SOLO.

THREEPIO: Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still frozen in carbonite.

INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR 
One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a dank, shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of unspeakable creatures bounce off the cold stone walls. Occasionally a repulsive arm or tentacle grabs through the bars at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps pitifully.

THREEPIO: What could possibly have come over Master Luke. Is it something I did? He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh!

A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor.

INT BOILER ROOM

The door slides open, revealing a room filled with steam and noisy machinery. The guard motions them into the boiler room, where they are met by a tall, thin humanlike robot named EV-9D9. Behind the robot can be seen a torture rack pulling the legs off a screaming baby work droid. A second power droid is upside down. As smoking branding irons are pressed into his feet, the stubby robot lets out an agonized electronic scream. Artoo and Threepio cringe as the guard grunts to EV-9D9.

NINEDENINE: Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a protocol droid, are you not?

THREEPIO: I am See-Threepio, human-cy...

NINEDENINE: Yes or no will do.

THREEPIO: Oh. Well, yes.

NINEDENINE: How many languages do you speak?

THREEPIO: I am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can readily...

NINEDENINE: Splendid! We have been without an interpreter since our master got angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.

THREEPIO: Disintegrated?

NINEDENINE (to a Gamorrean guard)
Guard! This protocol droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining bolt and take him back to His Excellency's main audience chamber.

The guard shoves Threepio toward the door.

THREEPIO (disappearing)
Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh!

Artoo lets out a plaintive cry as the door closes. Then he beeps angrily.

NINEDENINE: You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect. I have need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in nicely.

The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured electronic scream.

INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The court of Jabba the Hutt is in the midst of a drunken, raucous party. Sloppy, smelly monsters cheer and make rude noises as Oola and a fat female dancer perform in front of Jabba's throne.

Jabba leers at the dancers and with a lustful gleam in his eye beckons Oola to come and sit with him. She stops dancing and backs away, shaking her head. Jabba gets angry and points to a spot next to him.

JABBA: Da Eitha!

The lovely alien shakes her head again and screams.

OOLA: Na Chuba negatorie Na! Na! Natoota...

Jabba is furious and pulls her toward him, tugging on the chain.

JABBA: Boscka!

He pushes a button and, before the dancer can flee, a trap door in the floor springs open and swallows her up. As the door snaps shut, a muffled growl is followed by a hideous scream. Jabba and his monstrous friends laugh hysterically and several revelers hurry over to watch her fate through a grate.

Threepio cringes and glances wistfully at the carbonite form of Han Solo, but is immediately distracted by a gunshot offscreen.An unnatural quiet sweeps the boisterous gathering. On the far side of the room, the crush of debauchers moves aside to allow the approach of two guards followed by BOUSHH, an oddly cloaked bounty hunter, leading his captive, Han Solo's copilot, CHEWBACCA THE WOOKIEE.

Bib takes his place next to his disgusting master, and whispers into his ear, pointing at Chewbacca and the bounty hunter. Jabba listens intently, then the bounty hunter bows before the gangster and speaks a greeting in a strange, electronically processed tongue (Ubese).

BOUSHH (in Ubese subtitled)
I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.

THREEPIO: Oh, no! Chewbacca!

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
At last we have the mighty Chewbacca.

Jabba lets out a loud, long, blood-curdling laugh and turns to Threepio, waving him closer. The reluctant droid obeys.

THREEPIO: Oh, uh, yes, uh, I am here, Your Worshipfulness. Uh... yes!

Jabba continues speaking, as Threepio nervously translates. Boushh listens, studying the dangerous creatures around the room. He notices BOBA FETT standing near the door.

THREEPIO: Oh. The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the reward of twenty-five thousand.

BOUSHH (in Ubese subtitled)
I want fifty thousand. No less.

Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid off the raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh adjusts his weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio struggles back onto the throne. The disheveled droid tries to compose himself.

THREEPIO: Uh, oh... but what, what did I say?
(to Boushh)
Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand.

The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand. Threepio looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the bounty hunter. The droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting very impatient.

THREEPIO: Because he's holding a thermal detonator.

The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters in the room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to glow in the bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a tense hush. Jabba stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until a sly grin creeps across his vast mouth and he begins to laugh.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive.

Jabba continues.

THREEPIO: Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I suggest you take it.

Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for his reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator and it goes dead.

BOUSHH: Zeebuss.

THREEPIO: He agrees!

The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly appreciative creatures.

Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.

INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR AND CELL

Gamorrean guards lead Chewie down the same hallway we saw before. When a tentacle reaches out at the Wookiee, Chewie's ferocious ROAR echoes against the walls and the tentacle snaps back into its cell in terror. It takes all the guards to hurl Chewie roughly into a cell, slamming the door behind him. Chewie lets out a pathetic howl and bangs on the iron door.

EXT JABBA'S PALACE

The palace is sitting in the light of the double sunset. On the road in front, a large toadlike creature flicks its tongue out for a desert rodent and burps in satisfaction.

INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Silence. The room is deserted, only the awful debris of the alien celebration giving mute witness to the activity here before. Several drunk creatures lie unconscious around the room, snoring loudly.

A shadowy figure moves stealthily among the columns at the perimeter of the room and is revealed to be Boushh, the bounty hunter. He picks his way carefully through the snoring, drunken monsters.

Han Solo, the frozen space pirate, hangs spotlighted on the wall, his coffin-like case suspended by a force field. The bounty hunter deactivates the force field by flipping a control switch to one side of the coffin. The heavy case slowly lowers to the floor of the alcove.

Boushh steps up to the case, studying Han, and then turns to the controls on the side of the coffin. He activates a series of switches and, after one last hesitant look at Han, slides the de-carbonization lever. The case begins to emit a sound as the hard shell covering the contours of Han's face begins to melt away. The bounty hunter watches as Han's body is freed of its metallic coat and his forearms and hands, previously raised in reflexive protest, drop slackly to his side. His face muscles relax from their mask of horror. He appears quite dead.

Boushh's ugly helmet leans close to Han's face listening for the breath of life. Nothing. He waits. Han's eyes pop open with a start and he begins coughing. The bounty hunter steadies the staggering newborn.

BOUSHH: Just relax for a moment. You're free of the carbonite.

Han touches his face with his hand and moans.

BOUSHH: Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.

HAN: I can't see.

BOUSHH: Your eyesight will return in time.

HAN: Where am I?

BOUSHH: Jabba's palace.

HAN: Who are you?

The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.

LEIA: Someone who loves you.

HAN: Leia!

LEIA: I gotta get you out of here.

As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.

HAN: What's that? I know that laugh.

The curtain on the far side of the alcove opens, revealing Jabba the Hutt, surrounded by Bib and other aliens. He laughs again, and his gross cronies join in a cacophony of alien glee.

HAN: Hey, Jabba. Look, Jabba, I was just on my way to pay you back, but I got a little sidetracked. It's not my fault.

Jabba laughs.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
It's too late for that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but now you're Bantha fodder.

HAN: Look...

JABBA (cont Huttese subtitled)
Take him away!

The guards grab Han and start to lead him away.

HAN: Jabba... I'll pay you triple! You're throwing away a fortune here. Don't be a fool!

Han is dragged off, as Lando quickly moves forward and attempts to lead Leia away.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring her to me.

Jabba chuckles as Lando and a second guard drag the beautiful young princess toward him. Threepio peeks from behind a monster and quickly turns away in disgust.

LEIA: We have powerful friends. You're gonna regret this...

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
I'm sure.

Inexorably her lovely face moves to within a few inches of Jabba's ugly blob of a head, and Leia turns away in disgust.

LEIA: Ugh!

THREEPIO: Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.

INT DUNGEON CELL

The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks open. A guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell and the door slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of light from a crack in the door. Han is trying to collect himself when suddenly a growl is heard from the far side of the cell. He jumps back against the cell door and listens.

HAN: Chewie? Chewie, is that you?

The shadowy figure lets out a crazy yell and races toward Han, lifting him off the ground with a big hug that carries them into the light, revealing Chewie.

HAN: Ah! Chew--Chewie!

The giant Wookiee barks with glee.

HAN: Wait. I can't see, pal. What's goin' on?

Chewie barks an excited blue streak.

HAN: Luke? Luke's crazy. He can't even take care of himself, much less rescue anybody.

Chewie barks a reply.

HAN: A...Jedi Knight? I--I'm out of it for a little while, everybody gets delusions of grandeur.

Chewie growls insistently. He holds Han to his chest and pets his head.

HAN: I'm all right, pal. I'm all right.

INT MAIN GATE AND HALL - JABBA'S PALACE

Noisily, the main gate lifts to flood the blackness with blinding LIGHT and reveal the silhouetted figure of LUKE SKYWALKER. He is clad in a robe similar to Ben's and wears neither pistol nor laser sword. Luke strides purposefully into the hallway. Two giant guards move to block Luke's path. Luke halts.

Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who immediately lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi lowers his hand and moves on down the hallway.

Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse his direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry on the conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in the darkness.

LUKE: I must speak with Jabba.

Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops and stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly.

LUKE: You will take me to Jabba now!

Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke follows him into the gloom.

LUKE: You serve your master well.

Bib responds.

LUKE: And you will be rewarded.

INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him. Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs from a manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba the Hutt. Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the gangster slug.

THREEPIO: At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me.

BIB: Master.

Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.

BIB: ...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
I told you not to admit him.

LUKE: I must be allowed to speak.

BIB (in Huttese subtitled)
He must be allowed to speak.

Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick.

Luke stares hard at Jabba.

LUKE: You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee to me.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
Your mind powers will not work on me, boy.

LUKE: Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either profit by this... or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not to underestimate my powers.

Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke about the pit.

THREEPIO: Master Luke, you're standing on...

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die.

Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and flies into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as Jabba raises his hand.

JABBA: Bascka!

The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained by a human guard-- Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at him and he shakes his head "no."

INT RANCOR PIT

Luke and the guard have dropped twenty-five feet from a chute into the dungeonlike cage. Luke gets to his feet as the guard yells hysterically for help. A crowd gathers up around the edge of the pit as the door in the side of the pit starts to RUMBLE open. The guard screams in panic. Luke looks calmly around for a means of escape.

THREEPIO: Oh, no! The Rancor!

At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant, fanged RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and tries futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes in on him.

The Rancor moves past Luke, and as the guard continues to scramble, the Rancor picks him up and pops him into its slavering jaws. A few screams, and the guard is swallowed with a gulp. The audience cheers and laughs at the guard's fate.

The monster turns and starts for Luke. The young Jedi dashes away just ahead of the monster's swipe at him, and picks up the long arm bone of an earlier victim. The monster grabs Luke and brings him up to his salivating mouth. At the last moment, Luke wedges the bone in the monster's mouth and is dropped to the floor. The monster bellows in rage and flails about, hitting the side of the pit, causing an avalanche.

The monster crushes the bone in its jaws and sees Luke, who squeezes into a crevice in the pit wall. Luke looks past the monster to the holding cave beyond. On the far side of the holding cave is a utility door--if only he can get to it. The Rancor spots Luke and reaches into the crevice for him. Luke grabs a large rock and raises it, smashing it down on the Rancor's finger.

HOLDING TUNNEL - RANCOR PIT

The Rancor lets out a loud howl as Luke makes a run for the holding cave. He reaches the door and pushes a button to open it. When he succeeds, he sees a heavy barred gate between him and safety. Beyond the gate two guards look up from their dinner. Luke turns to see the monster heading for him, and pulls with all his might on the gate. The guards move to the gate and start poking at the young Jedi with spears, laughing.

Luke crouches (against the wall) as the monster starts to reach for him. Suddenly he notices a main door control panel halfway up the wall. As the Rancor moves in for the kill, Luke picks up a skull from the cave floor and hurls it at the panel. The giant overhead door comes crashing down on the beast's head, squashing it like a sledgehammer on an egg.

A startled gasp is heard from the stunned court. There's consternation at this turn of events. Heads look to Jabba, who is actually turning red with anger. Leia cannot suppress her joy. Jabba utters harsh commands to his guards and they hurry off.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring me Solo and the Wookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage.

INT RANCOR PIT

The Rancor KEEPERS have come into the cage and are examining their dead beast. One of them breaks down and weeps. The other glares menacingly at Luke, who is unworried. Several guards rush into the holding tunnel and take Luke away.

INT THRONE ROOM

The crowd of creepy courtiers parts as Han and Chewie are brought into the throne room, and other guards drag Luke up the steps.

LUKE: Han!

HAN: Luke!

LUKE: Are you all right?

HAN: Fine. Together again, huh?

LUKE: Wouldn't miss it.

HAN: How are we doing?

LUKE: The same as always.

HAN: That bad, huh? Where's Leia?

Luke looks to Leia.

LEIA: I'm here.

Threepio is standing behind the grotesque gangster as he strokes Leia like a pet cat. Several of the guards, including Lando, bring Luke from the other side of the room. Boba is standing behind Jabba.

Threepio steps forward and translates for the captives.

THREEPIO: Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, has decreed that you are to be terminated immediately.

HAN: Good, I hate long waits.

THREEPIO: You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea and cast into the pit of Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc.

HAN (to Luke)
Doesn't sound so bad.

THREEPIO: In his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as you are slowly digested over a thousand years.

HAN: On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?

Chewie barks his agreement.

LUKE: You should have bargained, Jabba. That's the last mistake you'll ever make.

Jabba cackles evilly at this.

As the guards drag the prisoners from the throne room, a loud cheer rises from the crowd. Leia and Chewie exchange concerned looks, but Luke Skywalker, Jedi warrior, cannot suppress a smile.

EXT TATOOINE SEA - SKIFF

Jabba's huge SAIL BARGE moves above the desert surface accompanied by two smaller Skiffs. One of the skiffs glides close, revealing Luke, Han, and Chewie -- all in bonds -- surrounded by guards, one of whom is Lando in disguise.

HAN: I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a big light blur.

LUKE: There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know.

HAN: You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.

LUKE: Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything.

HAN: Oh... great!

INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to him.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
Soon you will learn to appreciate me.

Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.

THREEPIO: Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you doing here?

Artoo beeps a quick reply.

THREEPIO: Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous. They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too!

Artoo whistles a singsong response.

THREEPIO: Hmm. I wish I had your confidence.

EXT SARLACC PIT 
The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to one side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the prisoner's skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers. At the bottom of the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-lined hole, surrounded by thousands of needle-sharp teeth. This is the SARLACC. A plank is extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards release Luke's bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the Sarlacc's mouth.

EXT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba and Leia are now by the rail, watching. Threepio leans forward and the slobbering villain mumbles something to him. As Threepio steps up to a comlink, Jabba raises his arm and the motley array of intergalactic pirates fall silent. Threepio's voice is amplified across loudspeakers.

THREEPIO: Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.

EXT SKIFF

Han steps forward arrogantly and begins to speak.

HAN: Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of... worm-ridden filth he'll get no such pleasure from us. Right?

Chewie growls his agreement.

LUKE: Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or die.

Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick look of conspiracy to him.

INT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

The assembled monsters rock with mocking laughter as Artoo zips unnoticed up the ramp to the upper deck. Jabba's laughter subsides as he speaks into the comlink.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
Move him into position.

Jabba makes a thumbs-down gesture. Leia looks worried.

EXT BARGE - UPPER DECK

Artoo appears from below and zips over to the rail facing the pit. Below, in the skiff, Luke is prodded by a guard to the edge of the plank over the gaping Sarlacc. Luke looks up at Artoo, then gives a jaunty salute: the signal the little droid has been waiting for. A flap opens in Artoo's domed head.

JABBA (in Huttese subtitled)
Put him in.

EXT SKIFF - PLANK

Luke is prodded and jumps off the plank to the cheers of the bloodthirsty spectators. But, before anyone can even perceive what is happening, he spins around and grabs the end of the plank by his fingertips. The plank bends wildly from his weight and catapults him skyward. In midair he does a complete flip and drops down on the end of the plank in the same spot he just vacated, but facing the skiff. He casually extends an open palm and -- his lightsaber, which Artoo has sent arcing toward him, drops into his hand.

With samurai speed, Luke ignites it and attacks the guard who prodded him off the plank, sending the hapless monster screaming overboard. The other guards swarm toward Luke. He wades into them, lightsaber flashing. Lando struggles with another guard at the back of the skiff.

EXT SARLACC PIT

A bewildered guard lands in the soft, sandy slope of the pit, and begins sliding. He claws desperately as a Sarlacc tentacle grabs him and pulls him screaming into the viscous mouth.

INT SAIL BARGE

Jabba watches this and explodes in rage. He barks commands, and the guards around him rush off to do his bidding. The scuzzy creatures watching the action from the window are in an uproar.

EXT SKIFF 
Luke knocks another guard off the skiff and into the waiting mouth of the Sarlacc. He starts to untie Chewie's bonds.

LUKE: Easy, Chewie.

At that moment, the deck gunmen on the barge unleash a series of blasts from a big cannon on the upper deck. Lando is tossed from the deck of the rocking skiff. He manages to grab a rope, and dangles desperately above the Sarlacc pit.

LANDO: Whoa! Whoa! Help!

EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

With two swift strides, the dangerous Boba Fett ignites his rocket pack, leaps into the air, and flies from the barge down to the skiff.

EXT SKIFF

Boba lands on the skiff and starts to aim his laser gun at Luke, who has freed Han and Chewie from their bonds. But before Boba can fire, the young Jedi spins on him, lightsaber sweeping, and hacks the bounty hunter's gun in half.

Immediately, the skiff takes another direct hit from the barge's deck gun. Shards of skiff deck fly. Chewie and Han are thrown against the rail.

HAN: Chewie, you okay? Where is he?

The Wookiee is wounded and he howls in pain.

HAN: I'm okay, pal.

For a moment, Luke is distracted, and in that moment, Boba fires a cable out of his armored sleeve. Instantly, Luke is wrapped in a strong cable, his arms pinned against his side, his sword arm free only from the wrist down. Luke bends his wrist so the lightsaber points straight up to reach the wire lasso and cuts through. Luke shrugs away the cable and stands free.

Another blast from the Barge's deck gun hits near Boba and he is knocked unconscious to the deck, next to where Lando is hanging.

LANDO: Han! Chewie?

HAN: Lando!

Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade brackets him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their weapons, moves in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming second skiff. The young Jedi leaps into the middle of the second skiff and begins decimating the guards from their midst.

Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to Han, guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of the guards. Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions; finally he grabs hold of the spear.

Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at the other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba raises his arm, and aims his lethal appendage.

Chewie barks desperately at Han.

HAN: Boba Fett?! Boba Fett?! Where?

The space pirate turns around blindly, and the long spear in his hand whacks squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.

The impact of the swing causes the rocket pack to ignite. Boba blasts off, flying over the second skiff like a missile, smashing against the side of the huge Sail Barge and sliding away into the pit. He screams as his armored body makes its last flight past Lando and directly into the mucous mouth of the Sarlacc. The Sarlacc burps. Chewie growls a weak congratulations to Han.

INT SAIL BARGE

Leia turns from the spectacle outside, leaps onto Jabba's throne, and throws the chain that enslaves her over his head around his bulbous neck. Then she dives off the other side of the throne, pulling the chain violently in her grasp. Jabba's flaccid neck contracts beneath the tightening chain. His huge eyes bulge from their sockets and his scum-coated tongue flops out. The Exalted Hutt's huge tail spasms through its death throes and then slams down into final stillness. Leia struggles to free herself of her bondage.

EXT SKIFF

Luke continues to destroy the aliens on the guards' skiff, as Han extends his spear downward to Lando, who is still dangling precariously from a rope on the prisoner's skiff.

HAN: Lando, grab it!

LANDO: Lower it!

HAN: I'm trying!

A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.

HAN: Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping.

Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of the pit.

HAN: Grab it! L--Lando. Grab!

Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit.

The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand moves him closer to his final reward.

HAN: Grab it! Almost... You almost got it!

Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando to let go of the spear.

LANDO: Hold it! Whoa!

Again Han extends the spear toward Lando.

HAN: Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy. Hold me, Chewie.

Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit.

HAN: Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando.

LANDO: No, wait! I thought you were blind!

HAN: It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.

LANDO: All right! A little higher! Just a little higher!

Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.

HAN: Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up, Chewie, up!

EXT UPPER DECK

The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human chain in their gun sights when something up on deck commands their attention: Luke, standing before them like a pirate king, ignites his lightsaber. The deck gunners have barely reached for their pistols before the young Jedi has demolished them. Immediately, Luke turns to see two more gunners (who have been uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge) racing for him, firing their laser pistols.

INT SAIL BARGE - OBSERVATION DECK

Leia is struggling against her chains in desperation as Artoo zips through the tumult of confused monsters to the rescue; the stubby little droid extends a small laser gun and blasts the chain apart.

LEIA: Come on. We gotta get out of here quick.

Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is kicking and screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey- monster picks out one of the golden droid's eyes.

THREEPIO: Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh! Ohhh! You beast!

Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a scream, crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio (with his eye dangling from a wire) hurry off.

EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

Luke is warding off laser blasts with his lightsaber, surrounded by guards and fighting like a demon. Leia emerges onto the deck as Luke turns to face another guard.

LUKE (to Leia)
Get the gun! Point it at the deck!

Leia turns toward the barge cannon, climbs on the platform, and swivels the gun around.

LUKE: Point it at the deck!

A laser blast hits Luke's mechanical hand and he bends over in pain, but manages to swing his lightsaber upward and take out the last of the guards. He looks at the wounded hand, which reveals the mechanism. He flexes the hand; it still works.

Near the rail of the upper deck, Artoo and Threepio steady themselves as Threepio gets ready to jump. Artoo beeps wildly.

THREEPIO: Artoo, where are we going? I couldn't possibly jump.

Artoo butts the golden droid over the edge and steps off himself, tumbling toward the sand.

Luke runs along the empty deck toward Leia and the barge gun, which she has brought around to point down at the deck.

LUKE: Come on!

Luke has hold on one of the rigging ropes from the mast. He gathers Leia in his other arm and kicks the trigger of the deck gun. The gun explodes into the deck as Luke and Leia swing out toward the skiff.

EXT SKIFF 
Han leans panting against the rail as Chewie helps Lando onto the deck. Luke and Leia land on the skiff with flair.

LUKE: Let's go! And don't forget the droids.

LANDO: We're on our way.

The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of the huge craft is on fire.

EXT SAND DUNE

Threepio's legs stick straight up from the dune where he landed. Next to it, Artoo's periscope is the only thing above the sand. The skiff floats above them and two large electromagnets dangle down on a wire. With a loud CLANG, both droids are pulled from the sand.

EXT DUNE SEA

The little skiff skips around the burning Sail Barge, which continues its chain of explosions. As the skiff sails off across the desert, the barge settles to the sand and disappears in one final conflagration.

EXT DUNE SEA - LANDING AREA

A ferocious sandstorm blocks our view. Then, through the ROAR, we HEAR THE VOICES of our heroes. They emerge slowly from the veil of sand, pressing on against the wind. First come Artoo and Threepio, followed by Leia guiding Han, then Luke and Lando come into view, each supporting one side of the towering Chewbacca, who hobbles from his wound.

Soon, they can make out some large vague shapes in the blowing sand. It is the Millennium Falcon and, parked beside it, Luke's trusty X-wing and a two-seated Y-wing. They must shout to be heard.

HAN: I don't know. All I can see is a lot of blowing sand!

LEIA: That's all any of us can see.

HAN (blinking)
Then I guess I'm getting better.

As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind dies down to something more describable as a severe weather condition. Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with a HUM.

HAN (turning to Luke)
I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there.

LUKE (shrugging it off)
I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.

HAN: No, I'm thinking a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest thing to dead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide awake nothing!

Luke nods, as Chewie growls affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, mussing his hair like a proud uncle. And Leia warmly hugs him.

LUKE (moving to his ship)
I'll see you back at the fleet.

HAN: Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?

LUKE: I have a promise I have to keep first... to an old friend.

Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.

HAN 
(looking dubiously at Lando, obviously remembering his friend's betrayal and subsequent aide)
Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.

LANDO: Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.

LEIA: He means "You're welcome."

LANDO: Come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball.

44A EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE 
The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA.

INT X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is at the controls, with Artoo attached behind him outside the canopy. Luke speaks into his comlink to the others, in the MILLENNIUM FALCON.

LUKE: I'll meet you back at the fleet.

LEIA (over comlink)
Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now.

LUKE: I will.

HAN (over comlink)
Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one.

A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front of Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he pulls a black glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand.

LUKE: That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a promise to keep... to an old friend.

EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR AND ENDOR

A Super Star Destroyer and several ships of the Imperial Fleet rest in space above the half-completed Death Star and its green neighbor, Endor. Four squads of TIE fighters escort an Imperial shuttle toward the Death Star.

INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO DOCKING BAY

Lord Vader strides down the hallway, accompanied by a very nervous Death Star commander.

INT DOCKING BAY - DEATH STAR

Thousands of Imperial troops in tight formation fill the mammoth docking bay. Vader and the officer walk to the landing platform, where the shuttle is coming to rest.

The shuttle's ramp lowers and the Emperor's Royal Guards come out and create a lethal perimeter. The assembled troops move to rigid attention with a momentous SNAP.

Then, in the huge SILENCE which follows, the EMPEROR appears. He is a rather small, shriveled old man. His bent frame slowly makes its way down the ramp with the aid of a gnarled cane. He wears a hooded cloak similar to the one Ben wears, except that it is black. The Emperor's face is shrouded and difficult to see, except for his piercing yellow eyes. Commander Jerjerrod and Darth Vader kneel to him. The Supreme Ruler of the galaxy beckons to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR (to Vader)
Rise, my friend.

Vader rises and falls in next to the Emperor as he slowly makes his way along the rows of troops. Jerjerrod and the other commanders stay kneeling until the Supreme Ruler and Vader, followed by several Imperial dignitaries, pass by; only then do they join in the procession.

VADER: The Death Star will be completed on schedule.

EMPEROR: You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue your search for young Skywalker.

VADER: Yes, my Master.

EMPEROR: Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, you must bring him before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the dark side of the Force.

VADER: As you wish.

EMPEROR: Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.

He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial troops.

EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH

Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.

INT YODA'S HOUSE

The tip of a walking stick taps hesitantly across the earthen floor of the cottage. Our view travels up the stick to the small green hand that clutches it, and then to the familiar face of YODA, THE JEDI MASTER. His manner is frail, and his voice, though cheerful, seems weaker.

YODA: Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes?

Luke is sitting in a corner of the cramped space and, indeed, his look has been woeful. Caught, he tries to hide it.

LUKE: No... of course not.

YODA (tickled, chuckles)
I do, yes, I do! Sick have I become. Old and weak. (Points a crooked finger)
When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm?

Yoda chuckles at this, coughs, and hobbles over toward his bed.

YODA: Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have.

Yoda sits himself on his bed, with great effort.

LUKE: Master Yoda, you can't die.

YODA: Strong am I with the Force... but not that strong! Twilight is upon me and soon night must fall. That is the way of things... the way of the Force.

LUKE: But I need your help. I've come back to complete the training.

YODA: No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need.

Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.

LUKE: Then I am a Jedi?

YODA (shakes his head)
Ohhh. Not yet. One thing remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, only then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will.

Luke is in agony. He is silent for a long moment, screwing up his courage. Finally he is able to ask.

LUKE: Master Yoda... is Darth Vader my father?

Yoda's eyes are full of weariness and compassion. An odd, sad smile creases his face. He turns painfully on his side, away from Luke.

YODA: Mmm... rest I need. Yes... rest.

Luke watches him, each moment an eternity.

LUKE: Yoda, I must know.

YODA: Your father he is.

Luke reacts as if cut.

YODA: Told you, did he?

LUKE: Yes.

A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face. He closes his eyes.

YODA: Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...

LUKE: Unfortunate that I know the truth?

Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth.

YODA (gathering all his strength)
No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him... that incomplete was your training. Not ready for the burden were you.

LUKE: Well, I'm sorry.

YODA: Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force. But beware. Anger, fear, aggression.
The dark side are they. Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny.

He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.

YODA: Luke...Luke...Do not...Do not underestimate the powers of the Emperor, or suffer your father's fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I: (cough),
the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke... (with great effort)
There is...another...Sky...Sky...walker.

He catches his breath. A shiver runs through the ancient green creature, and he dies. Luke stares at his dead master as he disappears in front of his eyes.

EXT DAGOBAH SWAMP - X-WING 
Luke wanders back to where his ship is sitting. Artoo beeps a greeting, but is ignored by his depressed master. Luke kneels down, begins to help Artoo with the ship, then stops and shakes his head dejectedly.

LUKE: I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.

BEN (OS)
Yoda will always be with you.

Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI.

LUKE: Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me?

The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp.

LUKE: You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father.

BEN: You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be Anakin Skywalker and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a certain point of view.

LUKE (turning away, derisive)
A certain point of view!

BEN: Luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend greatly on our own point of view.

Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment.

BEN: I don't blame you for being angry. If I was wrong in what I did, it certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened to your father was my fault.

Ben pauses sadly.

BEN: Anakin was a good friend.

Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on a stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting presence.

BEN: When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot. But I was amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the galaxy.

Luke is entranced.

LUKE: There's still good in him.

BEN: I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.

LUKE: I can't do it, Ben.

BEN: You cannot escape your destiny.

LUKE: I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.

BEN: Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been prepared.

LUKE: But I had to help my friends.

BEN (grinning at Luke's indignation)
And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear.

LUKE (with sadness)
I found out Darth Vader was my father.

BEN: To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side - the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, you must face Darth Vader again!

LUKE: I can't kill my own father.

BEN: Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope.

LUKE: Yoda spoke of another.

BEN: The other he spoke of is your twin sister.

LUKE: But I have no sister.

BEN: Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.

LUKE: Leia! Leia's my sister.

BEN: Your insight serves you well. Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They do you credit.
But they could be made to serve the Emperor.

Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this.

BEN (continuing his narrative)
When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible. So I took you to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine... and your mother took Leia to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan.

Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale.

BEN (attempting to give solace with his words)
The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage... no one knew she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, since Alderaan had long been a democracy. Even so, the family continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster father's path, became a senator as well. That's not all she became, of course... she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause. That's what she was doing when her path crossed yours... for her foster parents had always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became desperate.

Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of his sister.

LUKE: But you can't let her get involved now, Ben. Vader will destroy her.

BEN: She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, Luke... but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy Vader!

EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE.

INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN BRIEFING ROOM

Hundreds of Rebel commanders of all races and forms are assembled in the WAR ROOM. WEDGE is among them. In the center of the room is a holographic model depicting the half-completed Imperial Death Star, the nearby Moon of Endor, and the protecting deflector shield.

MON MOTHMA, the leader of the Alliance, enters the room. She is a stern but beautiful woman in her fifties. Conferring with her are several military leaders, including GENERAL MADINE and ADMIRAL ACKBAR (a salmon-colored Mon Calamari). Lando moves through the crowd until he finds Han and Chewie, standing next to Leia and the two droids.

Han peers at Lando's new insignia on his chest, and is amused.

HAN: Well, look at you, a general, huh?

 LANDO: Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the battle of Taanab.

HAN (sarcastic)
Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I didn't know they were lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.

LANDO (smiling)
I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.

HAN: Well, who says they didn't. But I ain't crazy. You're the respectable one, remember?

Mon Mothma signals for attention, and the room falls silent.

MON MOTHMA: The Emperor has made a critical error and the time for our attack has come.

This causes a stir. Mon Mothma turns to a holographic model of the Death Star, the Endor moon and the protecting deflector shield in the center of the room.

MON MOTHMA: The data brought to us by the Bothan spies pinpoints the exact location of the Emperor's new battle station. We also know that the weapon systems of this Death Star are not yet operational. With the Imperial Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is relatively unprotected. But most important of all, we've learned that the Emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the construction of this Death Star.

A volley of spirited chatter erupts from the crowd. Han turns to Leia as Chewie barks his amazement.

MON MOTHMA (cont)
Many Bothans died to bring us this information. Admiral Ackbar, please.

Admiral Ackbar steps forward and points to the Death Star's force field and the Moon of Endor.

ACKBAR: You can see here the Death Star orbiting the forest Moon of Endor. Although the weapon systems on this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death Star does have a strong defense mechanism. It is protected by an energy shield, which is generated from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once the shield is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor.

There's a concerned murmur.

ACKBAR (cont)
General Calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack

Han turns to Lando with a look of respect.

HAN: Good luck.

Lando nods his thanks.

HAN: You're gonna need it.

ACKBAR: General Madine.

Madine moves center stage.

GENERAL MADINE: We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle. Disguised as a cargo ship, and using a secret Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the shield generator.

The assembly begins to mumble among themselves.

THREEPIO: Sounds dangerous.

LEIA (to Han)
I wonder who they found to pull that off.

GENERAL MADINE: General Solo, is your strike team assembled?

Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration.

HAN: Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command crew for the shuttle.

Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers. Han looks up at him.

HAN: Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want to speak for you.

Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL.

HAN (smiles)
That's one.

LEIA: Uh, General... count me in.

VOICE (OS)
I'm with you, too!

They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are more cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands Luke. Han and Leia are surprised and delighted.

Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change in him and looks into his eyes questioningly.

LEIA: What is it?

LUKE (hesitant)
Ask me again sometime.

Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks up.

HAN: Luke.

LUKE: Hi, Han... Chewie.

Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.

 THREEPIO: "Exciting" is hardly the word I would use.

INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE, which looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast docking bay. Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads Artoo and Threepio up the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel strike team loading weapons and supplies. Lando turns to face Han. Luke and Leia have said their good-byes and start up the ramp.

HAN: Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the help you can get. She's the fastest ship in the fleet.

LANDO: All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take good care of her.
She-she won't get a scratch. All right?

HAN (looks at him warmly)
Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch.

LANDO: Look, would you get going, you pirate.

Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes.

LANDO: Good luck.

HAN: You, too.

Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away.

INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Luke is working on a back control panel as Han comes in and takes the pilot's seat. Chewie, in the seat next to him, is trying to figure out all the Imperial controls.

HAN: You got her warmed?

LUKE: Yeah, she's comin' up.

Chewie growls a complaint.

HAN: No. I don't think the Empire had Wookiees in mind when they designed her, Chewie.

Leia comes in from the hold and takes her seat near Luke.

Chewie barks and hits some switches. Han's glance has stuck on something out the window: the Millennium Falcon. Leia nudges him gently.

LEIA: Hey, are you awake?

HAN: Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm not gonna see her again.

Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder.

LEIA (softly)
Come on, General, let's move.

Han snaps back to life.

HAN: Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do. Ready, everybody?

LUKE: All set.

THREEPIO: Here we go again.

HAN: All right, hang on.

EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET

The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms off into space.

INT EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The converted control room is dimly lit, except for a pool of light at the far end. There the Emperor sits in an elaborate control chair before a large window which looks out across the half-completed Death Star to the giant green moon of Endor.

Darth Vader, standing with other members of the Imperial council, cautiously approaches his master. The ruler's back is to Vader. After several tense moments, the Emperor's chair rotates around to face him.

VADER: What is thy bidding, my Master?

EMPEROR: Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until called for.

VADER: What of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?

EMPEROR: It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and young Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go out to the command ship and await my orders.

VADER: Yes, my Master.

Vader bows, then turns and exits the throne room as the Emperor walks toward the waiting council members.

EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR - MOON

There is a great deal of Imperial traffic in the area as construction proceeds on the Death Star. Transports, TIE fighters, and a few Star Destroyers move about. Now the huge Super Star Destroyer announces itself with a low roar and soon fills the frame.

INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Han looks back at Luke and Leia as Chewie flips several switches. Through the viewscreen, the Death Star and the huge Super Star Destroyer can be seen.

HAN: If they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty quick, Chewie.

Chewie growls his agreement.

CONTROLLER (over radio)
We have you on our screen now. Please identify.

HAN: Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield.

CONTROLLER (over radio)
Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.

HAN: Transmission commencing.

Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed transmission begins.

LEIA: Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.

HAN: It'll work. It'll work.

Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer that looms ever larger before them.

LUKE: Vader's on that ship.

HAN: Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep your distance.

Chewie barks a question.

HAN: I don't know. Fly casual.

LUKE: I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come.

HAN: It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here.

Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out the window.

INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Lord Vader stands, back to us, staring out a window at the Death Star. Now, some vibration felt only by him causes him to turn. After a moment of stillness, he walks down the row of controllers to where ADMIRAL PIETT is leaning over the tracking screen of the controller we've seen earlier. Piett straightens at Vader's approach.

VADER: Where is that shuttle going?

PIETT (into comlink)
Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination?

PILOT VOICE (HAN) (filtered)
Parts and technical crew for the forest moon.

The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction.

VADER: Do they have a code clearance?

PIETT: It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I was about to clear them.

Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.

PIETT: Shall I hold them?

VADER: No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them myself.

PIETT (surprised)
As you wish, my lord.
(to controller)
Carry on.

Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.

INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

The group waits tensely.

HAN: They're not goin' for it, Chewie.

CONTROLLER (filtered)
Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. Follow your present course.

Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks worried. Chewie barks.

HAN: Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No problem.

EXT SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle moves off toward the green Sanctuary Moon.

EXT FOREST LANDING SITE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle sits in a clearing of the moon's dark, primeval forest, dwarfed by the ancient towering trees.

On an adjacent hill, the helmeted Rebel contingent makes its way up a steep trail. Leia and Han are slightly ahead of Chewie and Luke. The troops of the strike-team squad follow, with Artoo and Threepio bringing up the rear. Artoo beeps.

Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reach a crest in the hill and drop suddenly to the ground, signaling the rest of the group to stop. Han and Luke crawl up to take a look.

THREEPIO: Oh, I told you it was dangerous here.

THEIR POV. Not far below them, two IMPERIAL SCOUTS are wandering through bushes in the valley below. Their two ROCKET BIKES are parked nearby.

LEIA: Shall we try and go around?

HAN: It'll take time. This whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.

Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie start quietly down.

EXT FOREST CLEARING - CAMPSITE

The four friends make their way to the edge of the clearing not far from the two Imperial scouts.

HAN: Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay here.

LUKE: Quietly, there might be more of them out there.

HAN (grins)
Hey... it's me.

Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the scouts. Luke and Leia exchange smiles.

Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the scout whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his companion.

SCOUT #1 Go for help! Go!

The second scout jumps on his speeder bike and takes off, but Chewie gets off a shot on his crossbow laser weapon, causing the scout to crash into a tree. Han and Scout #1 are in a rousing fistfight.

LUKE (sarcastic)
Great. Come on.

Luke starts for the scuffle, followed by Leia with her laser pistol drawn. As they run through the bushes, Leia stops and points to where two more scouts are sitting on their speeder bikes, with an unoccupied bike parked nearby.

LEIA: Over there! Two more of them!

LUKE: I see them. Wait, Leia!

But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder bike. She starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike behind her.

LUKE (pointing to the controls)
Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch!

Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely avoiding two huge trees.

HAN: Hey, wait! Ahhh!

He flips the remaining scout to the ground.

EXT FOREST - THE BIKE CHASE

The two fleeing Imperial scouts have a good lead as Luke and Leia pursue through the giant trees at 200 miles an hour, the fire from their bike's laser cannon hitting harmlessly near the moving targets.

LUKE: Move closer!

Leia guns it, closing the gap, as the two scouts recklessly veer through a narrow gap in the trees. One of the bikes SCRAPES a tree, slowing the scout.

LUKE: Get alongside that one!

Leia pulls her speeder bike up so close to the scout's bike that their steering vanes SCRAPE noisily. Luke leaps from his bike to the back of the scout's, grabs the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flips him off the bike, into a thick tree trunk. Luke gains control of the bike and follows Leia, who has pulled ahead. They tear off after the remaining scout.

LUKE: Get him!

The speeding chase passes TWO MORE IMPERIAL SCOUTS. These two swing into pursuit, chasing Luke and Leia, firing away with their laser cannon. The two Rebels look behind them just as Luke's bike takes a glancing hit.

LUKE (indicating the one ahead)
Keep on that one! I'll take these two!

With Leia shooting ahead, Luke suddenly slams his steering vanes into the braking mode. Luke's bike is a blur to the two pursuing scouts as they zip by him on either side. Luke slams his bike into forward and starts firing away, having switched places with his pursuers in a manner of seconds. Luke's aim is good and one scout's bike is blasted out of control. It explodes against a tree trunk.

The scout's cohort takes one glance back at the flash and shifts into turbo drive, going even faster. Luke keeps on his tail.

FAR AHEAD, Leia and the first scout are doing a highspeed slalom through the death-dealing trunks. Now Leia aims her bike skyward and rises out of sight.

The scout turns in confusion, unable to see his pursuer. Suddenly, Leia dives down upon him from above, cannon blasting. The scout's bike takes a glancing hit.

Leia moves in alongside him. The scout eyes her beside him, reaches down, and pulls out a handgun. Before Leia can react, the scout has blasted her bike, sending it out of control. Leia dives off as her bike explodes against a tree. The happy scout looks back at the explosion. But when he turns forward again, he is on a collision course with a giant fallen tree. He hits his brakes to no avail and disappears in a conflagration.

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST: Luke and the last remaining scout continue their weaving chase through the trees. Now Luke moves up close. The scout responds by slamming his bike into Luke's. A fallen tree forms a bridge across their path. The scout zips under. Luke goes over the top and crashes his bike down on the scout's. Both riders look ahead - a wide trunk looms directly in Luke's path, but the scout's bike beside him makes it almost impossible for him to avoid it. Luke banks with all his might, leaning almost horizontal over the scout's bike, and is able to make it by, just clipping the tree. When he straightens, he and the scout discover that their two bikes have locked front vanes and are moving as one.

Another big tree looms in Luke's path. He reacts instinctively and dives off his bike. The two bikes come apart a second before Luke's explodes against a tree. The scout sweeps out and circles back to find Luke.

Luke rises from the undergrowth as the scout bears down on him and opens fire with his laser cannon. Luke ignites his laser sword and begins deflecting the bolts. The scout's bike keeps coming and it appears that in a second it will cut Luke in half. At the last instant, Luke steps aside and chops off the bike's control vanes with one mighty slash. The scout's bike begins to shudder, then, pitching and rolling, it rises up to slam directly into a tree in a giant ball of fire.

EXT SCOUT CAMPSITE - FOREST

Han, Chewie, and the droids, along with the rest of the squad, wait anxiously in the clearing. Artoo's radar screen sticks out of his domed head and revolves, scanning the forest. He beeps.

THREEPIO: Oh, General Solo, somebody's coming. Oh!

Han, Chewie, and the rest of the squad raise their weapons.

Luke steps out of the foliage to find the weapons trained on him. He's too tired to care. He plops himself down on a boulder and looks around.

HAN: Luke! Where's Leia?

LUKE (concerned)
What? She didn't come back?

HAN: I thought she was with you.

LUKE: We got separated.

Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.

LUKE: Hey, we better go look for her.

Han nods, and signals to a Rebel officer.

HAN: Take the squad ahead. We'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.

LUKE: Come on, Artoo. We'll need your scanners.

Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as the squad proceeds in another.

THREEPIO: Don't worry, Master Luke. We know what to do.

They move off into the woods.

THREEPIO (to Artoo)
And you said it was pretty here. Ugh!

EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

A strange little furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly into view. The creature is an EWOK, by the name of WICKET. He seems somewhat puzzled, and prods Leia with a spear. The princess groans; this frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he prods her again. Leia sits up and stares at the three-foot-high Ewok. She tries to figure out where she is and what has happened. Her clothes are torn; she's bruised and disheveled.

The Ewok jumps up and grabs a four-foot-long spear, which he holds in a defensive position. Leia watches him as he circles warily and begins poking her with the sharp point of the spear.

LEIA: Cut it out!

She stands up, and the Ewok quickly backs away.

LEIA: I'm not gonna hurt you.

Leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.

LEIA: Well, looks like I'm stuck here. Trouble is, I don't know where here is.

She puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness from her fall. She looks over at the watchful little Ewok and pats the log beside her.

LEIA: Well, maybe you can help me. Come on, sit down.

Wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy. Leia pats the log again.

LEIA: I promise I won't hurt you. Now come here.

More growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.

LEIA: All right. You want something to eat?

She takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him. Wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves cautiously toward Leia, chattering in his squeaky Ewok language.

LEIA: That's right. Come on. Hmmm?

Sniffing the food curiously, the Ewok comes toward Leia and sits on the log beside her. She takes off her helmet, and the little creature jumps back, startled again. He runs along the log, pointing his spear at her and chattering a blue streak. Leia holds out the helmet to him.

LEIA: Look, it's a hat. It's not gonna hurt you. Look. You're a jittery little thing, aren't you?

Reassured, Wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log, coming to investigate the helmet. Suddenly his ears perk up and he begins to sniff the air. He looks around warily, whispering some Ewokese warning to Leia.

LEIA: What is it?

Suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on the log next to Leia. Leia and Wicket both roll backwards off the log, hiding behind it. Leia holds her own laser gun ready, while Wicket disappears underneath the log. Another shot, and still no sight of anyone in the forest. Then Leia senses something and turns to find a large IMPERIAL SCOUT standing over her with his weapon pointed at her head. He reaches out his hand for her weapon.

SCOUT #l Freeze! Come on, get up!

She hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the foliage in front of the log.

SCOUT #1 Go get your ride and take her back to base.

SCOUT #2 Yes, sir.

The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched under the log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. The scout jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at Wicket, puzzled. Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She dives for his laser pistol, and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. Leia fires away and hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's bike, which flies end over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once more. Wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards Leia withnew respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the dense foliage.

LEIA: Come on, let's get outta here.

As they move into the foliage, Wicket takes the lead. He shrieks and tugs at Leia to follow him.

INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO EMPEROR'S TOWER

Darth Vader walks down the corridor to the Emperor's Tower and private elevator. The Emperor's private guard steps in Vader's path.

GUARD: Halt! The Emperor does not wish to be disturbed at the moment.

VADER (raising his gloved hand to the two guards and choking them with the Force)
The Emperor will see me, now!

GUARD: (repeating Vader's command)
The Emperor will see you, now.

INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Two red Imperial Guards stand watch at the elevator as the door opens to reveal Vader. Vader enters the eerie, foreboding throne room. It appears to be empty. His footsteps echo as he approaches the throne. He waits, absolutely still. The Emperor sits with his back to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR: I told you to remain on the command ship.

VADER: A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on Endor.

EMPEROR (no surprise)
Yes, I know.

VADER (after a beat)
My son is with them.

EMPEROR (very cool)
Are you sure?

VADER: I have felt him, my Master.

EMPEROR: Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are clear, Lord Vader.

Vader knows what is being asked.

VADER: They are clear, my Master.

EMPEROR: Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them.

VADER (skeptical)
He will come to me?

EMPEROR: I have foreseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing. He will come to you and then you will bring him before me.

VADER (bows)
As you wish.

The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room.

EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

Han, Luke, Chewie, and the two droids are spread out as they move through the heavy foliage near the clearing where we last saw Leia. Luke finds Leia's helmet, picks it up with an expression of concern.

HAN (OS)
Luke! Luke!

Luke runs with the helmet to where Han has found the charred wreckage of a speeder bike in the grass.

THREEPIO: Oh, Master Luke.

LUKE: There's two more wrecked speeders back there. And I found this.

He tosses the helmet to Han.

THREEPIO: I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no trace of Princess Leia.

HAN (gravely)
I hope she's alright.

Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off through the foliage.

 HAN: What, Chewie? What? Chewie!

The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots along, Artoo whistles nervously.

EXT FOREST - DENSE FOLIAGE

The group has reached a break in the undergrowth. Chewie walks up to a tall stake planted in the ground. There is a dead animal hanging from it.

HAN: Hey, I don't get it.

The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake.

HAN (cont)
Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie.

Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat.

LUKE: Chewie, wa-wait! Don't!

Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the stake. SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a wild series of beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret. Their bodies are a jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw from his mouth.

HAN: Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach.

LUKE: Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this thing. (trying to free an arm) Han, can you reach my lightsaber?

HAN: Yeah, sure.

Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his cutting appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to squeeze an arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net continues to spin.

THREEPIO: Artoo, I'm not sure that's such a good idea. It's a very long dro-o-op!!

Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the net, crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and sit up, they realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks, each brandishing a long spear.

HAN: Wha--? Hey! Point that thing someplace else.

Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.

HAN: Hey!

LUKE: Han, don't. It'll be all right.

The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke lets them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry critters.

LUKE: Chewie, give 'em your crossbow.

Artoo and Threepio are just untangling themselves. Threepio gets free of the net and sits up, rattled.

THREEPIO: Oh, my head. Oh, my goodness!

When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and chatter among themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue. The Ewok nearest him drops his spear and prostrates himself before the droid. In a moment, all the Ewoks have followed suit. Chewie lets out a puzzled bark. Han and Luke regard the bowed creatures in wonder. The Ewoks begin to chant at Threepio.

LUKE: Do you understand anything they're saying?

THREEPIO: Oh, yes, Master Luke! Remember that I am fluent in over six million forms of communication.

HAN: What are you telling them?

THREEPIO: Hello, I think... I could be mistaken. They're using a very primitive dialect. But I do believe they think I am some sort of god.

Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange "what next?" looks.

HAN: Well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?

THREEPIO: I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.

HAN: Proper?!

THREEPIO: It's against my programming to impersonate a deity.

Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.

HAN: Why, you--

Several Ewoks' spears are thrust in Han's face at the affront to their god. The Ewoks move in to protect their god and Han is surrounded by a menacing circle of spears, all aimed at him. He holds up his hands placatingly.

HAN: My mistake. He's an old friend of mine.

EXT FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS

A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest. Their prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long poles and wrapped in vines, cocoonlike.

Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind the captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by the remaining creatures.

EXT FOREST WALKWAY - MOON FOREST

The procession moves along a shaky, narrow, wooden walkway, high in the giant trees. It stops at the end of the walkway, which drops off into nothingness. On the other side of the abyss is a village of mud huts and rickety walkways, attached to the giant trees. The lead Ewok takes hold of a long vine and swings across to the village square; the other Ewoks follow suit.

EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE

The procession winds its way into the village square. Mother Ewoks gather their babies up and scurry into their huts at the sight of the newcomers. The group stops before the largest hut.

Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo are still bound to their poles. Han is placed on a spit above what looks like a barbecue pit and the others are leaned against a tree nearby. Threepio's litter/throne is gently placed near the pit. He watches with rapt fascination. Han, Luke, and Chewie are less than fascinated.

HAN: I have a really bad feeling about this.

Chewie growls his concern.

Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man, comes out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully, goes to join Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an elevated platform. A larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is examining Luke's lightsaber with great curiosity.

Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks, pointing to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin filling the pit under Han with firewood.

HAN: What did he say?

THREEPIO: I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the main course at a banquet in my honor.

The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening at the same moment the prisoners see her.

HAN and LUKE: Leia!

As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears.

LEIA: Oh!

THREEPIO: Your Royal Highness.

Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the assembled Ewoks and sighs.

LEIA: But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them they must be set free.

Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their heads negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners and barks some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood on the barbecue with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke and Han .

HAN: Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much.

LUKE: Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry and use your magic.

THREEPIO: But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't possibly --

LUKE: Just tell them.

Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to concentrate.

THREEPIO: You see, Master Luke; they didn't believe me. Just...

Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.

THREEPIO: ... as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's happening! Oh! Oh, dear! Oh!

The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now Threepio begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool, with Threepio calling out in total panic at his situation.

THREEPIO: Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo! Somebody, somebody, help! Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh!

Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping up at him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to the ground. Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo crashes to the ground. When the Ewoks set him upright, the little droid is fighting mad. Artoo beeps a blue streak at the nearest Ewok, and begins pursuing him, finally getting close enough to zap him with an electric charge. The Ewok jumps two feet in the air and runs away, screaming. A small group of Ewoks surround the giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and marveling at his height.

THREEPIO: Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness.

LUKE: Thanks, Threepio.

THREEPIO (still shaken)
I...I never knew I had it in me.

INT CHIEF'S HUT - COUNCIL OF ELDERS

A glowing fire dances in the center of the spartan, low-ceilinged room, creating a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Along one side, a group of ten Ewok elders flank Chief Chirpa, who sits on his throne. The Rebels sit along the walls of the hut, with Threepio between the two groups and Wicket and Teebo off to one side.

Threepio is in the midst of a long, animated speech in the Ewok's squeaky native tongue. The Ewoks listen carefully and occasionally murmur comments to each other. Threepio points several times at the Rebel group and pantomimes a short history of the Galactic Civil War, mimicking the explosion and rocket sounds, imitating Imperial walkers. Throughout the long account, certain familiar names are distinguishable in English: Princess Leia, Artoo, Darth Vader, Death Star, Jedi, Obi-Wan Kenobi. Artoo begins beeping excitedly at Threepio.

THREEPIO: Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that.

Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader, Han Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the present time.

At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then nod in agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement.

The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great cheer and screeches.

HAN: What's going on?

LEIA: I don't know.

Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now something passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The others do not notice.

THREEPIO: Wonderful! We are now a part of the tribe.

Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.

HAN: Just what I always wanted.

Chewbacca is being enthusiastically embraced by an Ewok, while Wicket clings to Han's leg.

HAN (chuckles)
Well, short help is better than no help at all, Chewie. (to Wicket) Thank you. Okay.

THREEPIO: He says the scouts are going to show us the quickest way to the shield generator.

Chewie barks. Luke has drifted to the back of the hut. Now he wanders outside into the moonlight. Leia notices and follows.

HAN: Good. How far is it? Ask him. We need some fresh supplies, too. And try and get our weapons back.

Han pulls Threepio back as he keeps trying to translate.

HAN (cont)
And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.

EXT EWOK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The walkway is deserted now. The windows of the little huts glow and flicker from the fires inside. The sounds of the forest fill the soft night air. Luke has wandered away from the Chief's hut and stands staring up at the Death Star. Leia finds him like that.

LEIA: Luke, what's wrong?

Luke turns and looks at her a long moment.

LUKE: Leia... do you remember your mother? Your real mother?

LEIA: Just a little bit. She died when I was very young.

LUKE: What do you remember?

LEIA: Just...images, really. Feelings.

LUKE: Tell me.

LEIA: (a little surprised at his insistence)
She was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad.
(looks up)
Why are you asking me all this?

He looks away.

LUKE: I have no memory of my mother. I never knew her.

LEIA: Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?

LUKE: Vader is here...now, on this moon.

LEIA (alarmed)
How do you know?

LUKE: I felt his presence. He's come for me. He can feel when I'm near. That's why I have to go.
(facing her)
As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and our mission here.
(beat)
I have to face him.

Leia is distraught, confused.

LEIA: Why?

Luke moves close and his manner is gentle. And very calm.

LUKE: He's my father.

LEIA: Your father?

LUKE: There's more. It won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must. If I don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance.

Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.

LEIA: Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power I--I don't understand and could never have.

LUKE: You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has it...I have it...and...my sister has it.

Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But she doesn't draw away. She begins to understand.

LUKE: Yes. It's you Leia.

LEIA: I know. Somehow...I've always known.

LUKE: Then you know why I have to face him.

LEIA: No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave this place. I wish I could go with you.

LUKE: No, you don't. You've always been strong.

LEIA: But, why must you confront him?

LUKE: Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I have to try.

They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister.

Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only now that she is crying.

HAN: Hey, what's goin' on?

Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes.

LEIA: Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a little while.

HAN (angry)
Nothing? Come on, tell me. What's goin' on?

She looks up at him, struggling to control herself.

LEIA: I...I can't tell you.

HAN (loses his temper)
Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell?

LEIA: I...

HAN: Ahhh...

He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her.

HAN: I'm sorry.

LEIA: Hold me.

Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.

EXT FOREST - IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM

An Imperial shuttle floats down from the Death Star and lands gracefully on the huge platform.

Now, an Imperial walker approaches the platform from the darkness of the forest. The whole outpost - platform, walkers, military - looks particularly offensive in the midst of this verdant beauty.

EXT IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM - LOWER DECK

Darth Vader walks down the ramp of the shuttle onto the platform, into an elevator, and appears on a ramp on a lower level. He walks toward another ramp exit and is met by two troopers and a commander with Luke, in binders, at their center. The young Jedi gazes at Vader with complete calm.

COMMANDER: This is a Rebel that surrendered to us. Although he denies it, I believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct a further search of the area.

The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber.

COMMANDER: He was armed only with this.

Vader looks at Luke, turns away and faces the commander, taking the lightsaber from the commander's hand.

VADER: Good work, Commander. Leave us. Conduct your search and bring his companions to me.

COMMANDER: Yes, my Lord.

The officer and troops withdraw. Vader and Luke are left standing alone in the oddly tranquil beauty of the place. The sounds of the forest filter in upon them.

VADER: The Emperor has been expecting you.

LUKE: I know, father.

VADER: So, you have accepted the truth.

LURE: I've accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father.

VADER (turning to face him)
That name no longer has any meaning for me.

LUKE: It is the name of your true self. You've only forgotten. I know there is good in you. The Emperor hasn't driven it from you fully. That is why you couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me to your Emperor now.

Vader looks down from Luke to the lightsaber in his own black- gloved hand. He seems to ponder Luke's words.

VADER (indicating lightsaber)
I see you have constructed a new lightsaber.

Vader ignites the lightsaber and holds it to examine its humming, brilliant blade.

VADER: Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are powerful, as the Emperor has foreseen.

They stand for a moment, the Vader extinguishes the lightsaber.

LUKE: Come with me.

VADER: Obi-Wan once thought as you do.

Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.

VADER: You don't know the power of the dark side. I must obey my master.

LUKE: I will not turn...and you'll be forced to kill me.

VADER: If that is your destiny.

LUKE: Search your feelings, father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict within you. Let go of your hate.

VADER: It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will show you the true nature of the Force. He is your master now.

Vader signals to some distant stormtroopers. He and Luke stand staring at one another for a long moment.

LUKE: Then my father is truly dead.

EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING SHIELD GENERATOR

Han, Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, Wicket, and another Ewok scout, PAPLOO, hide on a ridge overlooking the massive Imperial shield generator. At the base of the generator is an Imperial landing platform. Leia studies the installation.

LEIA: The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that landing platform. This isn't gonna be easy.

HAN: Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily guarded than this.

Wicket and Paploo are chattering away in Ewok language. They speak to Threepio.

LEIA: What's he saying?

THREEPIO: He says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.

EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.

INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando is in the pilot seat. His alien copilot, NIEN NUNB, takes some getting used to in the familiar environs of the Falcon's cockpit. Lando speaks into his comlink.

LANDO: Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for.

ACKBAR (VO)
Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates.

Lando turns to his weird copilot.

LANDO: Don't worry, my friends are down there. They'll have that shield down on time...
(to himself) or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.

The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment.

ACKBAR (VO)
All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.

LANDO: All right. Stand by.

He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak.

EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

We are treated to an awesome sight: first the Millennium Falcon, then Ackbar's Star Cruiser, then, in large segments, the huge fleet ROARS INTO HYPERSPACE. And disappears.

EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING CONTROL BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, the droids, and their two Ewok guides, Wicket and Paploo, have reunited with the Rebel strike squad. The entire group is spread through the thick undergrowth. Below them is the BUNKER that leads into the generator. Four Imperial scouts, their speeder bikes parked nearby, keep watch over the bunker entrance. Chewie growls an observation, and Paploo chatters away to Han in Ewok language.

HAN: Back door, huh? Good idea.

Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation.

HAN (cont)
It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble.

LEIA: Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.

HAN (with self-confident grin)
Then we'll do it real quiet-like.

Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The Ewoks chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up and scampers into the underbrush.

Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short reply.

THREEPIO: Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!

LEIA: Quiet.

THREEPIO: I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.

LEIA: Oh, no.

EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE

Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in surprise.

EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks.

HAN (sighs)
There goes our surprise attack.

EXT BUNKER

The Imperial scouts race toward Paploo just as his speeder zooms into motion. Paploo hangs on by his paws and shoots away into the forest.

SCOUT: Look! Over there! Stop him!

Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed away in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the door.

EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange delighted looks.

HAN: Not bad for a little furball. There's only one left. You stay here. We'll take care of this.

Han and the Wookiee nod at each other and slip down toward the bunker. Threepio moves to stand next to Wicket and Artoo.

THREEPIO: I have decided that we shall stay here.

EXT FOREST

Paploo sails through the trees, more lucky than in control. It's scary, but he loves it. When the Imperial scouts pull within sight behind him and begin firing laser bolts, he decides he's had enough. As he rounds a tree, out of their sight, Paploo grabs a vine and swings up into the trees. A moment later, the scouts tear under him in pursuit of the still-flying, unoccupied bike.

EXT BUNKER

Han sneaks up behind the remaining Imperial scout, taps him on the shoulder and lets the scout chase him behind the bunker into the arms of the waiting Rebel strike team. Han returns to the front, and taps out a pattern on the bunker door's control panel. Everyone stands out of sight, police-style, as the door opens. Han and Leia peek inside. No sign of life. The group enters the bunker silently, leaving one lookout behind.

INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The elevator opens. Vader and Luke enter the room alone. They walk across the dark space to stand before the throne, father and son side by side beneath the gaze of the Emperor. Vader bows to his Master.

EMPEROR: Welcome, young Skywalker. I have been expecting you.

Luke peers at the hooded figure defiantly. The Emperor then looks down at Luke's binders.

EMPEROR: You no longer need those.

The Emperor motions ever so slightly with his finger and Luke's binders fall away, clattering to the floor. Luke looks down at his own hands, free now to reach out and grab the Emperor's neck. He does nothing.

EMPEROR: Guards, leave us.

The red-cloaked guards turn and disappear behind the elevator.

EMPEROR (to Luke)
I'm looking forward to completing your training. In time you will call me Master.

LUKE: You're gravely mistaken. You won't convert me as you did my father.

The Emperor gets down from his throne and walks up very close to Luke. The Emperor looks into his eyes and, for the first time, Luke can perceive the evil visage within the hood.

EMPEROR: Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are mistaken...about a great many things.

VADER: His lightsaber.

Vader extends a gloved hand toward the Emperor, revealing Luke's lightsaber. The Emperor takes it.

EMPEROR: Ah, yes, a Jedi's weapon. Much like your father's. By now you must know your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be with you.

LUKE: You're wrong. Soon I'll be dead...and you with me.

The Emperor laughs.

EMPEROR: Perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of your Rebel fleet.

Luke looks up sharply.

EMPEROR: Yes...I assure you we are quite safe from your friends here.

Vader looks at Luke.

LUKE: Your overconfidence is your weakness.

EMPEROR: Your faith in your friends is yours.

VADER: It is pointless to resist, my son.

The Emperor turns to face Luke.

EMPEROR (angry)
Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. (indicates Endor)
Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon...

Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it.

EMPEROR (cont)
...are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my best troops awaits them.

Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword in the Emperor's hand.

EMPEROR: Oh...I'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when your friends arrive.

INT BUNKER - MAIN CONTROL ROOM

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the Rebel strike team storm through a door and enter the main control room, taking all of the personnel prisoner.

HAN: All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly! Quickly, Chewie.

The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their panels. Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel.

LEIA: Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment.

HAN: Charges! Come on, come on!

Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at the door.

THREEPIO (to Wicket)
Oh, my! They'll be captured!

Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into the forest.

THREEPIO: Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with me.

Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an Imperial commander enters.

COMMANDER: Freeze! You Rebel scum.

Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on them and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops surround them. Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming the Rebel contingent. Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks. They're helpless.

EXT SPACE - ENDOR, DEATH STAR, REBEL FLEET

The Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hang distant in space as the Rebel fleet comes out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. The Millennium Falcon and several Rebel fighters are at the front as the space armada bears down on its target.

INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando flips switches, checks his screen, and speaks into the radio.

LANDO: All wings report in.

WEDGE: Red Leader standing by.

GRAY LEADER: Gray Leader standing by.

GREEN LEADER: Green Leader standing by.

WEDGE: Lock S-foils in attack positions.

INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.

ACKBAR: May the Force be with us.

INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points to the control panel and talks to Lando.

LANDO: We've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up or down. Well, how could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.

Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star as the implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a switch on his comlink.

LANDO: Break off the attack! The shield is still up.

RED LEADER (VO)
I get no reading. Are you sure?

LANDO: Pull up! All craft pull up!

The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the Death Star move off right.

EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR SHIELD

The Falcon and the fighters of Red Squad veer off desperately to avoid the unseen wall.

INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Alarms are screaming and lights flashing as the huge ship changes course abruptly. Other ships in the fleet shoot by outside as the armada tries to halt its forward momentum.

ACKBAR: Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close to holding sector MV-7.

A Mon Calamari controller turns away from his screen and calls out to Ackbar, quite excited. The Admiral rushes over to the controller.

CONTROLLER: Admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.

On the screen can be seen the moon, Death Star, and the massive Imperial fleet. Ackbar moves to the comlink.

ACKBAR: It's a trap!

LANDO (over comlink)
Fighters coming in.

There is much excitement on the bridge as the attack begins.

The Millennium Falcon and several squads of Rebel fighters head into an armada of TIE fighters. The sky explodes as a fierce dogfight ensues in and around the giant Rebel cruisers.

REBEL PILOT: There's too many of them!

LANDO: Accelerate to attack speed! Draw their fire away from the cruisers.

WEDGE: Copy, Gold Leader.

The battle continues around the giant cruisers.

INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

Through the round window behind the Emperor's throne can be seen the distant flashes of the space battle in progress.

EMPEROR: Come, boy. See for yourself.

The Emperor is sitting in his throne, with Vader standing at his side. Luke moves to look through a small section of the window.

EMPEROR: From here you will witness the final destruction of the Alliance, and the end of your insignificant Rebellion.

Luke is in torment. He glances at his lightsaber sitting on the armrest of the throne. The Emperor watches him and smiles, touches the lightsaber.

EMPEROR: You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you now. Take your Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my servant.

Vader watches Luke in his agony.

LUKE: No!

EMPEROR: It is unavoidable. It is your destiny. You, like your father, are now mine!

EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of the bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted before, is now crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and hundreds of Imperial troops. The situation looks hopeless.

STORMTROOPER: All right, move it! I said move it! Go on!

From the undergrowth beyond the clearing comes a wild series of beeps and whistles. And --

THREEPIO: Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking for me?

BUNKER COMMANDER: Bring those two down here!

STORMTROOPER: Let's go!

Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids duck out of sight behind the tree.

THREEPIO: Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you sure this was a good idea?

STORMTROOPER: Freeze! Don't move!

THREEPIO: We surrender.

The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.

THREEPIO: Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo.

In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds the EWOK ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks throw their fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled stormtroopers and their awesome two-legged walkers. Biker scouts dart about blasting Ewoks, only to be crushed by a volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the trees above.

In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive for the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them. Han goes to the bunker door control panel.

LEIA: The code's changed. We need Artoo!

HAN: Here's the terminal.

LEIA (into comlink)
Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away.

Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, runs after him.

THREEPIO: Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, Artoo? No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back!

Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away at the little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover.

A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position. They fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The walker turns and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both guns. The Ewoks abandon their weapons and flee in all directions. Just as the walker moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop vines restraining two huge logs that swing down and smash thewalker's head flat.

A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a walker's foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are dragged behind.

Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the scouts round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vinetied between two trees.

EXT SPACE

The Falcon and other Rebel fighters are engaged in a ferocious combat with Imperial TIE fighters, the battle raging around thecruisers of the Rebel armada.

INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT: Lando is in radio communication with the pilots of the other Rebel squads.

LANDO: Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above!

WEDGE: Red Three, Red Two, pull in!

RED TWO: Got it!

RED THREE: Three of them coming in, twenty degrees!

WEDGE: Cut to the left! I'll take the leader! They're heading for the medical frigate.

Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at the TIEs from the belly guns.

NAVIGATOR: Pressure's steady.

The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation.

LANDO: Only the fighters are attacking. I wonder what those Star Destroyers are waiting for.

EXT SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET 
The giant Imperial Star Destroyer waits silently some distance from the battle. The Emperor's huge Super Star Destroyer rests in the middle of the fleet.

INT SUPER STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and two fleet commanders watch the battle at the huge window of the Super Star Destroyer bridge.

COMMANDER: We're in attack position now, sir.

PIETT: Hold here.

COMMANDER: We're not going to attack?

PIETT: I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He has something special planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.

INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

The Emperor, Vader, and a horrified Luke watch the aerial battle fireworks out the window and on the viewscreens. Another Rebel ship explodes against the protective shield.

EMPEROR: As you can see, my young apprentice, your friends have failed. Now witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle station.
(into comlink)
Fire at will, Commander.

Luke, in shock, looks out across the surface of the Death Star to the Rebel fleet beyond.

INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers pull back on several switches. Commander Jerjerrod stands over them.

JERJERROD: Fire!

INT DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

A button is pressed, which switches on a panel of lights. A hooded Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. A huge beam of light emanates from a long shaft. Two stormtroopers stand to one side at a control panel.

EXT DEATH STAR

The giant laser dish on the completed half of the Death Star begins to glow; Then a powerful beams shoots out toward the aerial battle.

EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The air is thick with giant ships. In among them, Rebel X-wings dogfight with Imperial TIE fighters. Now an enormous Rebel cruiser is hit by the Death Star beam and is blown to dust.

The Millennium Falcon roars over CAMERA, followed closely byseveral TIE fighters.

INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship is buffeted by the tremendous explosion of the Rebel cruiser. Lando and his copilot are stunned by the sight of the Death Star firepower.

LANDO: That blast came from the Death Star! That thing's operational! (into comlink)
Home One, this is Gold Leader.

INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar stands amid the confusion on the wide bridge and speaks into the comlink.

ACKBAR: We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.

LANDO: You won't get another chance at this, Admiral.

ACKBAR: We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel firepower of that magnitude.

LANDO: Han will have that shield down. We've got to give him more time.

EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Artoo and Threepio make it to the door, as Han and Leia provide cover fire.

THREEPIO: We're coming!

HAN: Come on! Come on!

THREEPIO: Oh, Artoo, hurry!

The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded companion.

THREEPIO: My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so brave?

HAN: Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.

LEIA: I'll cover you.

Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries. One is hit in the wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions. Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts. One tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.

EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR

The Rebel fleet continues to be picked off, from one side by the Death Star's deadly beam, from the other by the rampaging Imperial Star Destroyers.

INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando steers the Falcon wildly through an obstacle course of floating giants. He's been yelling into the comlink.

LANDO (desperately)
Yes! I said closer! Move as close as you can and engage those Star Destroyers at point-blank range.

ACKBAR: At that close range, we won't last long against those Star Destroyers.

LANDO: We'll last longer then we will against that Death Star...and we might just take a few of them with us.

The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star Destroyers and begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny fighters race across the giant surfaces, against a backdrop of laser fire.

The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.

REBEL PILOT: She's gonna blow!

Y-WING PILOT: I'm hit!

The damaged Y-wing plummets toward the Star Destroyer, and crashes into the control tower, exploding.

INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Out of the window and on the view screens, the Rebel fleet is being decimated in blinding explosions of light and debris. But in here there is no sound of battle. The Emperor turns to Luke.

EMPEROR: Your fleet has lost. And your friends on the Endor moon will not survive. There is no escape, my young apprentice. The Alliance will die...as will your friends.

Luke's eyes are full of rage. Vader watches him.

EMPEROR: Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless. Take your weapon! Strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark side will be complete.

Luke can resist no longer. The lightsaber flies into his hand. He ignites it in an instant and swings at the Emperor. Vader's lightsaber flashes into view, blocking Luke's blow before it can reach the Emperor. The two blades spark at contact. Luke turns to fight his father.

EXT FOREST

The battle rages on. Stormtroopers fire on Ewoks with sophisticated weapons while their furry little adversaries sneak up behind the Imperial troopers and bash them over the head with large clubs.

A walker marches through the undergrowth blasting Ewoks as it goes. An Ewok warrior gives the signal, and a pile of logs is cut loose. The logs tumble under the walker's feet, causing it to slip and slide until it finally topples over with a great crash.

A scout bike races past and is lassoed with a heavy vine. The other end of the vine is tied to a tree, and the bike swings around in ever-tightening circles until it runs out of rope and crashes into the trees with a huge explosion.

Chewie swings on a vine to the roof of one of the walkers. Two Ewoks cling to him. They land with a thud on the top of the lurching machine, then hang on for dear life. One of the Ewoks peeks through the window.

WALKER PILOT #1 Look!

PILOT #2 Get him off of there!

The walker pilot opens the hatch to see what's going on. He is yanked out and tossed overboard before he can scream. The two Ewoks jump into the cockpit and knock the second pilot unconscious. The Ewoks are thrown violently as the mighty machine careens out of control. Outside, Chewie is almost knocked overboard; he sticks his head into the hatch with a series of angry barks. The Ewoks are too busy and frightened to listen to the Wookiee's complaint. Chewie slips inside the walker.

Chewbacca's walker moves through the forest, firing laser blasts at unsuspecting stormtroopers, and destroying other Imperial walkers. The Ewoks shout and cheer as the giant machine helps turn the tide of the battle in their favor.

EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han works furiously at the control panel; wires spark as he attempts to hotwire the door. He motions to Leia, who is blasting away at some stormtroopers.

HAN: I think I got it. I got it!

The three wires spark as the connection is made. With a LOUD WHOOSH, a second blast door crashes down in front of the first.

Han frowns and turns back to the wires again. Leia exchanges shots with stormtroopers in the bushes, then suddenly cries out in pain, her shoulder hit by a laser blast.

THREEPIO: Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?

HAN: Let's see.

LEIA: It's not bad.

STORMTROOPER (OS)
Freeze!

They freeze.

THREEPIO: Oh, dear.

STORMTROOPER: Don't move!

Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the two stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock; the moment seems suspended in time.

HAN: I love you.

Another shared look between them, as she smiles up at Han.

LEIA: I know.

STORMTROOPER: Hands up! Stand up!

Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand. She disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back toward Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand before him, its deadly weapons aimed right at him.

HAN (to Leia)
Stay back.

The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head out and barks triumphantly.

HAN: Chewie! Get down here! She's wounded! No, wait.... I got an idea.

INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers even more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi has grown stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts to him. Vader is forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked down the stairs. Luke stands at the top of the stairs, ready to attack.

EMPEROR (laughing)
Good. Use your aggressive feelings, boy! Let the hate flow through you.

Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader, and realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off his lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.

VADER: Obi-Wan has taught you well.

LUKE: I will not fight you, father.

Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.

VADER: You are unwise to lower your defenses.

Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi leaps in an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk overhead. Vader stands below him.

LUKE: Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the conflict.

VADER: There is no conflict.

LUKE: You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe you'll destroy me now.

VADER: You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, then you will meet your destiny.

Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's platform. Vader moves to find him.

EMPEROR (laughs)
Good. Good.

EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The two armadas, like their sea-bound ancestors, blast away at each other in individual point-blank confrontations. A Star Destroyer explodes. The Rebel victor limps away, its back half alive with a series of minor explosions. The Rebel cruiser manages to move in next to a second Star Destroyer before it explodes completely, taking the Imperial Star Destroyer with it. The Falcon and several fighters attack one of the larger Imperial ships.

LANDO: Watch out. Squad at .06.

REBEL PILOT: I'm on it, Gold Leader.

WEDGE: Good shot, Red Two.

LANDO: Now...come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me down.

INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and interference.

HAN/PILOT (VO)
It's over, Commander. The Rebels have been routed. They're fleeing into the woods. We need reinforcements to continue the pursuit.

The controllers cheer.

CONTROL ROOM COMMANDER: Send three squads to help. Open the back door.

SECOND COMMANDER: Yes, sir.

EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

As the door to the bunker opens and the Imperial troops rush out, they're surprised to find themselves surrounded by Rebels, their weapons pointed at them. Ewoks holding bows and arrows appear on the roof of the bunker. The Imperial troops throw down their guns as Han and Chewie rush inside the bunker with explosive charges.

INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Han, Chewie, and several troops rush into the control room and plant explosive charges on the control panels and rush out.

HAN: Throw me another charge.

INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the throne, searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber held ready.

VADER: You cannot hide forever, Luke.

LUKE: I will not fight you.

VADER: Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your friends. Yes, your thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially for...

Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in anguish.

VADER: Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed her, too. Obi-Wan was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn to the dark side, then perhaps she will.

LUKE: Never-r-r!

Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at hisfather with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke and Vader fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader to retreat out of the low area and across a bridge overlooking a vast elevator shaft. Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his father further toward defeat.

The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword to block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off at the wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the mechanical stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke moves over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark Lord's throat. The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased agitation.

EMPEROR: Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now, fulfill your destiny and take your father's place at my side!

Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own mechanical, black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is becoming like his father. He makes the decision for which he has spent a lifetime in preparation. Luke steps back and hurls his lightsaber away.

LUKE: Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've failed, Your Highness. I am a Jedi 
like my father before me.

The Emperor's glee turns to rage.

EMPEROR: So be it...Jedi.

EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han and several of the fighters run out of the bunker and race across the clearing.

HAN: Move! Move!

A shock wave knocks them flat as the bunker explodes, followed by a spectacular display as the huge shield-generator radar dish explodes along with the bunker.

INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar, sitting in his control chair, speaks into the radio.

ACKBAR: The shield is down! Commence attack on theDeath Star's main reactor.

LANDO: We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all fighters follow me. (laughs)
Told you they'd do it!

The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads toward the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.

INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke stands still, as the Emperor reaches the bottom of thestairs. The Emperor's laughter has turned to anger. He raises his arms toward Luke.

EMPEROR: If you will not be turned, you will be destroyed.

Blinding bolts of energy, evil lightning, shoot from the Emperor's hands at Luke. Even in his surprise, the young Jedi tries to use the Force to deflect them. At first he is half successful, but after a moment the bolts of energy are coming with such speed and power the young Jedi shrinks before them, his knees buckling. The wounded Vader struggles to his feet, and moves to stand at his master's side.

EMPEROR: Young fool...only now, at the end, do you understand.

Luke is almost unconscious beneath the continuing assault of the Emperor's lightning. He clutches a canister to keep from falling into the bottomless shaft as the bolts tear through him.

EMPEROR: Your feeble skills are no match for the power of the dark side. You have paid the price for your lack of vision.

Luke writhes on the floor in unbearable pain, reaching weakly up toward where Vader stands watching.

LUKE (groans)
Father, please. Help me.

Again Vader stands, watching Luke. He looks at his master, the Emperor, then back to Luke on the floor.

EMPEROR: Now, young Skywalker...you will die.

Although it would not have seemed possible, the outpouring of bolts from the Emperor's fingers actually increases in intensity, the sound screaming through the room. Luke's body writhes in pain.

Vader grabs the Emperor from behind, fighting for control of the robed figure despite the Dark Lord's weakened body and gravely weakened arm. The Emperor struggles in his embrace, his bolt-shooting hands now lifted high, away from Luke. Now the white lightning arcs back to strike at Vader. He stumbles with his load as the sparks rain off his helmet and flow down over his black cape. He holds his evil master high over his head and walks to the edge of the abyss at the central core of the throne room. With one final burst of his once awesome strength, Darth Vader hurls the Emperor's body into the bottomless shaft.

The Emperor's body spins helplessly into the void, arcing as it falls into the abyss. Finally, when the body is far down the shaft, it explodes, creating a rush of air through the room.Vader's cape is whipped by the wind and he staggers, and collapses toward the bottomless hole. Luke crawls to his father's side and pulls him away from the edge of the abyss to safety. Both the young Jedi and the giant warrior are too weak to move.

EXT/INT - SPACE BATTLE - FIGHTER AND DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters follow the Falcon across the surface of the Death Star to the unfinished portion, where they dive into the superstructure of the giant battle station, followed by many TIE fighters.

WEDGE: I'm going in.

LANDO: Here goes nothing.

Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft, followed by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters who continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the pilot's faces as they race through the dark shaft.

LANDO: Now lock onto the strongest power source. It should be the power generator.

WEDGE: Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of space real fast.

The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still pursued by the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from behind and explodes.

LANDO: Split up and head back to the surface. See if you can get a few of those TIE fighters to follow you.

PILOT: Copy, Gold Leader.

The Rebel ships peel off pursued by three of the TIE's, while Lando and Wedge continue through the main tunnel. It narrows, and the Falcon scrapes the side dangerously. Two other TIE fighters continue to blast away at them.

LANDO: That was too close.

Nien Nunb agrees. The battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleet rages on. Several cruisers fire at the giant Super Star Destroyer.

INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

ACKBAR: We've got to give those fighters more time. Concentrate all fire on that Super Star Destroyer.

X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship.

INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and a commander stand at the window, looking out to the battle. They look concerned.

CONTROLLER: Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield.

PIETT: Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want anything to get through.

The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.

PIETT: Intensify forward firepower!

COMMANDER: It's too late!

The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the Death Star, and explodes.

INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

There is excitement on the bridge as the battle rages on all sides. They cheer as the giant Star Destroyer blows up.

INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

Chaos. For the first time, the Death Star is rocked by explosions as the Rebel fleet, no longer backed against a wall, zooms over, unloading a heavy barrage. Imperial troops run in all directions, confused and desperate to escape.

In the midst of this uproar, Luke is trying to carry the enormous deadweight of his father's weakening body toward an Imperial shuttle. Finally, Luke collapses from the strain. The explosions grow louder as Vader draws him closer.

VADER (a whisper)
Luke, help me take this mask off.

LURE: But you'll die.

VADER: Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... let me look on you with my own eyes.

Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the dying man smiles at the sight before him.

ANAKIN (very weak)
Now...go, my son. Leave me.

LUKE: No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you here. I've got to save you.

ANAKIN: You already have, Luke. You were right about me. Tell your sister...you were right.

LUKE: Father...I won't leave you.

Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker...Luke's father, dies.

A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and, half carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles toward a shuttle.

EXT DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the immense superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel Star Cruisers outside continually bombard the huge station. And each direct hit is answered by resonating, chain-reaction explosions within the station itself.

INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS

Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the dashing Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main reactor shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of the Falcon.

WEDGE: There it is!

LANDO: All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower.

WEDGE: Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.

The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small explosions.

The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor.

He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of the continuing chain of explosions.

INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar and other Mon Calamari lean on the railing of the bridge, watching the large screen showing the Death Star in the main briefing room.

ACKBAR: Move the fleet away from the Death Star.

EXT DEATH STAR

An Imperial shuttle, with Luke alone in the cockpit, rockets out of the main docking bay as that entire section of the Death Star is blown away.

Finally, just as it looks like the Falcon will not make it, Lando expertly pilots the craft out of the exploding superstructure and whizzes toward the Sanctuary Moon, only a moment before the Death Star supernovas into oblivion.

INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Nien Nunb laugh and cheer in relief.

EXT ENDOR FOREST

Han and Leia, Chewie, the droids, the Rebel troops, and the Ewoks all look to the sky as the Death Star reveals itself in a final flash of self-destruction. They all cheer.

THREEPIO: They did it!

Han looks town from the sky to Leia, a look of concern on his face. Leia continues to look at the sky as though listening for a silent voice.

HAN: I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.

LEIA: He wasn't. I can feel it.

HAN: You love him, don't you?

Leia smiles, puzzled.

LEIA: Yes.

HAN: All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't get in the way.

She realizes his misunderstanding.

LEIA: Oh. No, it's not like that at all. He's my brother.

Han is stunned by this news. She smiles, and they embrace.

EXT ENDOR FOREST - NIGHT

Luke sets a torch to the logs stacked under a funeral pyre where his father's body lies, again dressed in black mask and helmet. He stands, watching sadly, as the flames leap higher to consume Darth Vader -- Anakin Skywalker.

In the sky above, fireworks explode and Rebel fighters zoom above the forest.

EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE - NIGHT

A huge bonfire is the centerpiece of a wild celebration. Rebels and Ewoks rejoice in the warm glow of firelight, drums beating, singing, dancing, and laughing in the communal language of victory and liberation.

Lando runs in and is enthusiastically hugged by Han and Chewie. Then, finally, Luke arrives and the friends rush to greet and embrace him. They stand close, this hardy group, taking comfort in each other's touch, together to the end.

Rebels and Ewoks join together in dancing and celebration. The original group of adventurers watch from the sidelines. Only Luke seems distracted, alone in their midsts, his thoughts elsewhere.

He looks off to the side and sees three shimmering, smiling figures at the edge of the shadows: Ben Kenobi, Yoda, and Anakin Skywalker.

FADE OUT

THE END 

THE PHANTOM MENACE

 ITLE CARD: A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away....

A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main title, followed by a roll up, which crawls up into infinity.

Turmoil has engulfed the Galactic Republic. The taxation of trade routes to outlaying star systems is in dispute.
Hoping to resolve the matter with a blockade of deadly battleships, the greedy Trade Federation has stopped all shipping to the small planet of Naboo.
While the congress of the Republic endlessly debates this alarming chain of events, the Supreme Chancellor has secretly dispatched two Jedi Knights, the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy, to settle the conflict.....

PAN DOWN to reveal a small space cruiser heading TOWARD CAMERA at great speed. PAN with the cruiser as it heads towardthe beautiful green planet of Naboo, which is surrounded by hundreds of Trade Federation battleships.

INT. REPUBLIC CRUISER - COCKPIT
 n the cockpit of the cruise, the CAPTAIN and PILOT maneuver closer to one of the battleships.

QUI-GON: (off screen voice) Captain.

The Captain turns to an unseen figure sitting behind her.

CAPTAIN: Yes, sir?
QUI-GON: (V.O) Tell them we wish to board at once.
CAPTAIN: Yes, sir.

The CAPTAIN looks to her view screen, where NUTE GUNRAY, a Neimoidian trade viceroy, waits for a reply.

CAPTAIN: (cont'd) With all due respect for the Trade Federation, the Ambassodors for the Supreme Chancellor wish to board immediately.
NUTE: Yes, yes, of coarse...ahhh...as you know, our blockade is perfectly legal, and we'd be happy to recieve the Ambassador...Happy to.

The screen goes black. Out the cockpit window, the sinister battleship looms ever closer.

EXT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - DOCKING BAY - SPACE (FX)

The small space cruiser docks in the enormous main bay of the Federation battleship.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - DOCKING BAY - SPACE

A PROTOCOL DROID, TC-14, waits at the door to the docking bay. Two WORKER DROIDS, PK-4 and EG-9 watch.

PK-4: They must be important if the Viceroy sent one of those useless protocol gearheads to greet them.

The door opens, and the Republic cruiser can be seen in the docking bay.
Two darkly robed figures are greeted by TC-14.

TC-14: I'm TC-14 at your service. This way, please.

They move off down the hallway.

EG-9: A Republic cruiser! That's trouble...don't you think?
PR-4: I'm not made to think.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - CONFERENCE ROOM

A door slides open, and the two cloaked shapes are led PAST CAMERA into the formal conference room by TC-14.

TC-14: I hope you honoured sirs with the most comfortable here. My master will be with you shortly.

The droid bows before OBI-WAN KENOBI and QUI- GON JINN. He backs out the door and it closes. The JEDI lower their hoods and look out a large window at the lush green planet of Naboo. QUI-GON sixty years old, has long white hair in a ponytail. He is tall and striking, with blue eyes. OBI-WAN is twenty five, with very short brown hair, pale skin, and blue eyes. Several exotic, bird-like creatures SING in a cage near the door.

OBI-WAN: I have a bad feeling about this.
QUI-GON: I don't sense anything.
OBI-WAN: It's not about the mission, Master, it's somethging...elsewhere...elusive.
QUI-GON: Don't center on your anxiety, Obi-Wan. Keep your concentration here and now where it belongs.
OBI-WAN: Master Yoda says I should be mindful of the future...
QUI-GON: .....but not at the expense of the moment. Be mindful of the living Force, my young Padawan.
OBI-WAN: Yes, Master...how do you think the trade viceroy will deal with the chancellor's demands?
QUI-GON: These Federation types are cowards. The negotiations will be short.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE GUNRAY and DAULTRAY DOFINE stand, stunned, before TC-14.

NUTE: (shaken) What?!? What did you say?
TC-14: The Ambassadors are Jedi Knights, I believe.
DOFINE: I knew it! They were sent to force a settlement, eh. Blind me, we're done for!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY

A hologram of NUTE , surrounded by BATTLE DROIDS, appears in the conference room hallway.

NUTE: They must be dead by now. Blast, what's left of them.

The hologram fades off, as a BATTLE DROID, OWO-1, cautiously opens the door. A deadly green cloud billows from the room. BATTLE DROIDS cock their weapons as a figure stumbles out of the smoke. It is TC-14 , carrying the tray of drinks.

TC14: Oh, excuse me, so sorry.

The PROTOCOL DROID passes the armed camp just as two flashing laser swords fly out of the deadly fog, cutting down several BATTLE DROIDS before they can fire.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

The bridge is a cocophony of alarms. NUTE and RUNE watch OWO-1 on the viewscreen.

OWO-1: Not sure exactly what...

OWO-1 is suddenly cut in half in mid-sentence. RUNE gives NUTE a worried look.

NUTE: What in blazes is going on down there?
RUNE: Have you ever encountered a Jedi Knight before, sir?
NUTE: Well, not exactly, but I don't...(panicked) Seal off the bridge.
RUNE: That won't be enough, sir.

The doors to the bridge SLAM shut.

NUTE: I want destroyer droids up here at once!!!
RUNE: We will not survive this.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY - OUTSIDE BRIDGE

QUI-GON cuts several BATTLE DROIDS in half, creating a shower of sparks and metal parts. OBI-WAN raises his hand, sending several BATTLE DROIDS crashing into the wall.

QUI-GON makes his way to the bridge door and begins to cut through it.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

The CREW is very nervous as sparks start flying around the bridge door.
QUI-GON and OBI-WAN are on the view screen.

NUTE: Close the blast doors!!!

The huge, very thick blast door slams shut, followed by a second door, then a third. There is a hissing sound as the huge doors seal shut. QUI-GON tabs the door with his sword. The screen goes black as a red spot appears in the center of the blast door.

RUNE: ...They're still coming through!

On the door, chunks of molten metal begin to drop away.

NUTE: Impossible!! This is impossible!!
RUNE: Where are those destroyer droids?!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY - OUTSIDE BRIDGE

Ten ugly destroyer WHEEL DROIDS roll down the hallway at full speed. Just before they get to the bridge area, they stop and transform into their battle configuration. QUI-GON can't see them but senses their presence.

QUI-GON: Destroyer droids!
OBI-WAN: Offhand, I'd say this mission is past the negotiaion stage.

The WHEEL DROIDS, led by P-59, rush the entry area from three hallways, blasting away with their laser guns. They stop firing and stand in a semi-circle as the smoke clears. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON are nowhere to be seen.

P-59: Switch to bio...There they are!

The Jedi materialize at the far end of the hallway and dash through the doorway that slams shut. The WHEEL DROIDS blast away at the two JEDI with their laser swords.

OBI-WAN: They have shield generators!
QUI-GON: It's a standoff! Let's go!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE and RUNE stand on the bridge, watching the view screen as the WHEEL DROIDS' POV speeds to the doorway.

RUNE: We have them on the run, sir...they're no match for destroyer droids.
TEY HOW: Sir, they've gone up the ventilation shaft.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - MAIN BAY

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN appear at a large vent in a giant hanger bay. They are careful not to be seen. Thousands of BATTLE DROIDS are loading onto landing craft.

QUI-GON: Battle droids.
OBI-WAN: It's an invisible army.
QUI-GON: It's an odd play for the Trade Federation. We've got to warn the Naboo and contact Chancellor Valorum. Let's split up. Stow aboard separate ships and meet down on the planet.
OBI-WAN: You were right about one thing, Master. The negotiations were short.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

TEY HOW recieves a transmission.

TEY HOW: Sir, a transmission from the planet.
RUNE: It's Queen Amidala herself.
NUTE: At last we're getting results.

On the view screen, QUEEN AMIDALA appears in her throne room. Wearing her elaborate headdress and robes, she sits, surrounded by the GOVERNING COUNCIL and FOUR HANDMAIDENS, EIRTAE, YANE, RABE, and SACHE.

NUTE: (cont'd) Again you come before me, Your highness. The Federation is pleased.
AMIDALA: You will not be pleased when you hear what I have to say, Viceroy...Your trade boycott of our planet has ended.

NUTE smirks at RUNE.

NUTE: I was not aware of such a failure.
AMIDALA: I have word that the Senate is finally voting on this blockade of yours.
NUTE: I take it you know the outcome. I wonder why they bother to vote.
AMIDALA: Enough of this pretense, Viceroy! I'm aware the Chancellor's Ambassadors are with you now, and that you have beencommanded to reach a settlement.
NUTE: I know nothing about any Ambassadors...you must be mistaken.

AMIDALA, surprised at his reaction, studies him carefully.

AMIDALA: Beware, Viceroy....the Federation is going too far this time.
NUTE: Your Highness, we would never do anything without the approval of the Senate. You assume too much.
AMIDALA: We will see.

The QUEEN fades off, and the view screen goes black.

RUNE: She's right, the Senate will never....
NUTE: It's too late now.
RUNE: Do you think she suspects an attack?
NUTE: I don't know, but we must move quickly to disrupt all communications down there.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM

The QUEEN, EIRTAE, SACHE and her Governor, SIO BIBBLE, stand before a hologram of SENATOR PALPATINE, a thin, kindly man.

PALPATINE: ...How could that be true? I have assurances from the Chancellor...his Ambassaodrs did arrive. It must be the...get...negotiate...

The hologram of PALPATIONE sputters and fades away.

AMIDALA: Senator Palpatine?!? (turns to Panaka) What's happening?

CAPTAIN PANAKA turns to his SARGEANT

CAPT. PANAKA: Check the transmission generators...
BIBBLE: A malfunction?
CAPT. PANAKA: It could be the Federation jamming us. Your Highness.
BIBBLE: A communications disruption can only mean one thing. Invasion.
AMIDALA: Don't jump to conclusions, Governor. The Federation would not dare go that far.
CAPT. PANAKA: The Senate would revoke their trade franchise, and they'd be finished.
AMIDALA: We must continue to rely on negotiation.
BIBBLE: Negotiation? We've lost all communications!...and where atre the Chancellors Ambassadors? How can we negotiate? We must prepare to defend ourselves.
CAPT. PANAKA: This is a dangerous situation, Your Highness. Our security volunteers will be no match against a battle-hardened Federation army.
AMIDALA: I will not condone a course of action that will lead us to war.

EXT. SPACE LANDING CRAFT - TWILIGHT (FX)

Six landing craft fly in formation toward the surface of the planet Naboo.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - SHALLOW LAKE - TWILIGHT

Three landing craft slowly descend through the cloud cover of the perpetually gray twilight side of the planet. One by one, the Federation warships land in the eerie swamp.
OBI-WAN's head emerges from the mud of a shallow lake. For in the background, the activities of the invasion force can be seen in the mist.
OBI-WAN takes several deep breaths, then dissapears again under the muddy swamp. Troop Transports (MTT's) emerge from the landing craft.

EXT. NABOO EDGE OF SWAMP / GRASS PLAINS - TWILIGHT (FX)

The droid invasion force moves out of the swamp and onto a grassy plain.
OOM-9, in his tank, looks out over the vast ARMY marching across the rolling hills. A small hologram of RUNE and NUTE stands on the tank.

RUNE: ...and there is no trace of the Jedi. They may have gotton onto one of your landing craft.
OOM-9: If they are down here, sir, we'll find them. We are moving out of the swamp and are marching on the cities. We are meeting no resistance.
NUTE: Excellent.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - TWILIGHT

QUI-GON runs through the strange landscape, glancing back to see the monstrous troop transports, emerging from the mist. Animals begin to run past him in a panic.
An odd, frog-like Gungan, JAR JAR INKS, squats holding a clam he has retrieved from the murky swamp. The shell pops open. JAR JAR's greta tongue snaps out and grabs the clam, swallowing it in one gulp.
JAR JAR looks up and sees QUI-GON and the other creatures running like the wind toward him. One of the huge MTT's bears down on the JEDI like a charging locomotive. JAR JAR stands transfixed, still holding the clam shell in one hand.

JAR JAR: Oh, noooooooooo!

JAR JAR drops the shell and grabs onto QUI-GON as he passes. The JEDI is caught by surprise.

JAR JAR: (Cont'd) Hey, help me! Help me!!
QUI-GON: Let go!

The machine is about tp crush them as QUI-GON drags JAR JAR behind him.
Just as the transport is about to hit them, QUI-GON drops, and JAR JAR goes splat into the mud with him. The transport races overhead.
QUI-GON and JAR JAR pull themselves out of the mud. They stand watching the war machine dissapear into the mist. JAR JAR grabs QUI-GON and hugs him.

JAR JAR: Oyi, mooie-mooie! I luv yous!

The frog-like creature kisses the JEDI.

QUI-GON: Are you brainless? You almost got us killed!
JAR JAR: I spake.
QUI-GON: The ability to speak does not make you intelligent. Now get outta here!

QUI-GON starts to move off, and JAR JAR follows.

JAR JAR: No...no! Mesa stay...Mesa yous humble servaunt.
QUI-GON: That wont be necessary.
JAR JAR: Oh boot tis! Tis demunded byda guds. Tis a live debett, tis. Mesa culled Jaja Binkss.

In the distance, two STAPS burst out of the mist at high speed, chasing OBI-WAN.

QUI-GON: I have no time for this now...
JAR JAR: Say what?

The two STAPS barrell down on OBI-WAN.

JAR JAR: (cont'd) Oh, nooooo! Weesa ganna....

QUI-GON throws JAR JAR into the mud.

QUI-GON: Stay down!

His head pops up.

JAR JAR: ...dieeee!

The two troops fire laser bolts at OBI-WAN. QUI-GON deflects the bolts back, and the STAPS blow up. One-two. OBI-WAN is exhausted and tries to catch his breath.

OBI-WAN: Sorry, Master, the water fried my weapon.

OBI-WAN pulls out his burnt laser sword handle. QUI-GON inspects it, as JAR JAR pulls himself out of the mud.

QUI-GON: You forgot to turn your power off again, didn't you?

OBI-WAN nods sheeplishly.

QUI-GON: (cont'd) It won't take long to recharge, but this is a lesson I hope you've learned, my young Padawan.
OBI-WAN: Yes, Master.
JAR JAR: Yousa sav-ed my again, hey?
OBI-WAN: What's this?
QUI-GON: A local. Let's go, before more of those droids show up.
JAR JAR: Mure? Mure did you spake??!?

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON start to run. JAR JAR tries to keep up.

JAR JAR: (cont'd) Ex-squeeze me, but da moto grande safe place would be Otoh Gunga. Tis where I grew up...Tis safe city.

They all stop.

QUI-GON: A city! (JAR JAR nods his head) Can you take us there?
JAR JAR: Ahhh, will...on second taut...no, not willy.
QUI-GON: No??!
JAR JAR: Iss embarrissing, boot... My afrai my've bean banished. My forgoten der Bosses would do terrible tings to my. Terrible tings if my goen back dare.

A PULSATING SOUND is heard in the distance.

QUI-GON: You hear that?

JAR JAR shakes his head yes.

QUI-GON: (cont'd) That's the sound of a thousand terrible things heading this way...
OBI-WAN: When they find us, they will crush us, grind us into little pieces, then blast us into oblivion!
JAR JAR: Oh! Yousa point is well seen. Dis way! Hurry!

JAR JAR turns and runs into the swamp.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE - TWILIGHT

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN and JAR JAR run into a murky lake and stop as JAR JAR tries to catch his breath. The TRANSPORTS ARE HEARD in the distance.

QUI-GON: Much farther?
JAR JAR: Wesa goen underwater, okeyday?

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN pull out small capsule from their utility belts that turn into breathing masks.

JAR JAR: (cont'd) My warning yous. Gungans no liken outlaunders. Don't expict a wern welcome.
OBI-WAN: Don't worry, this has not been our day for warm welcomes.

JAR JAR jumps, does a double somersault with a twist, and dives into the water.
Breath masks on, QUI-GON and OBI-WAN wade in after him.

EXT. NABOO LAKE - UNDERWATER

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN swim behind JAR JAR, who is very much at home in the water. Down they swim into murky depths. In the distance the glow of Otoh Gunga, an underwater city made up of large bubbles, becomes more distinct.
They approach the strange, art nouveau habitat. JAR JAR swims magically through one of the bubble membranes, which seals behind him. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON follow.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - CITY SQUARE

GUNGANS in the square scatter when they see the strange JEDI. Four GUARDS armed with long electro-poles ride two-legged KAADUS into the square. The GUARDS, led by CAPTAIN TARPALS, point their lethal poles at the dripping trio.

JAR JAR: Heyo-dalee, Cap'n Tarpals, Mesa back!
CAPT. TARPALS: Noah gain, Jar Jar. Yousa goen tada Bosses. Yousa in big dudu this time.

CAPT. TARPALS gives JAR JAR a slight zap with his power pole. JAR JAR jumps and moves off, followed by the two JEDI.

JAR JAR: How wude.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - HIGH TOWER BOARD ROOM

The Bosses' Board Room has bubble walls, with small lighted fish swimming around outside like moving stars. A long circular judge's bench filled with GUNGAN OFFICIALS dominates the room. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand facing BOSS NASS, who sits on a bench higher than the others.

BOSS NASS: Yousa cannot bees hair. Dis army of mackineeks up dare tis new weesong!
QUI-GON: That droid army is about to attack the Naboo. We must warn them.
BOSS NASS: Wesa no like da Naboo! Un dey no like uss-ens. Da Naboo tink day so smarty den us-ens. Day tink day brains so big.
OBI-WAN: After those droids take control of the surface, they will come here and take control of you.
BOSS NASS: No, mesa no tink so. Mesa scant talkie witda Naboo, and no nutten talkie it outlaunders. Dos mackineeks no comen here! Dey not know of uss-en.
OBI-WAN: You and the Naboo form a symbiont circle. What happens to noe of you will affect the other. You must understand this.
BOSS NASS: Wesa wish no nutten in yousa tings, outlaunder, and wesa no care-n about da Naboo.
QUI-GON: (waves his hand) Then speed us on our way.
BOSS NASS: Wesa gonna speed yousaway.
QUI-GON: We need a transport.
BOSS NASS: Wesa give yousa una bongo. Da speedest way tooda Naboo tis goen through da core. Now go.
QUI-GON: Thank you for your help. We go in peace.

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN turn to leave.

OBI-WAN: Master, whats a bongo?
QUI-GON: A transport, I hope.

The JEDI notice JAR JAR in chains to one side, waiting to hear his verdict.
QUI-GON stops. JAR JAR gives him a forlorn look.

JAR JAR: Daza setten yous up. Goen through da planet core is bad bombin!!
QUI-GON: Thank you, my friend.
JAR JAR: Ahhh...any hep hair would be hot.

JAR JAR's soulful look is counterpointed by a sheepish grin.

OBI-WAN: We are short of time, Master.
QUI-GON: We'll need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. This Gungan my be of help.

QUI-GON walks bact to BOSS NASS.

QUI-GON: (cont'd) What is to become of Jar Jar Binks here?
BOSS NASS: Binkss brokeen the nocombackie law. Hisen to be pune-ished.
QUI-GON: He has been a great help to us. I hope the punishment will not be too severe.
BOSS NASS: Pounded unto death.
JAR JAR: (grimacing) Oooooh...Ouch!

OBI-WAN looks concerned. QUI-GON is thinking.

QUI-GON: We need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. I have saved Jar Jar Binks' life. He owes me what you call a "life.debt."
BOSS NASS: Binks. Yousa havena liveplay with thisen hisen?

JAR JAR nods and joins the JEDI. QUI-GON waves his hand.

QUI-GON: Your gods demand that his life belongs to me now.
BOSS NASS: Hisen live tis yos, outlauder. Begone wit him.
JAR JAR: Count mesa outta dis! Better dead here, den deader in da core...Yee guds, whata mesa sayin?!

EXT. NABOO CITY - UNDERWATER - SUB (FX)

A strange little submarine propels itself away from the Otoh Gunga, leaving the glow of the settlement in the distance.

INT. SUB COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

OBI-WAN in the co-pilots seat, JAR JAR guides the craft.

JAR JAR: Dis is nusen.
OBI-WAN: Master, why do you keep dragging these pathetic life forms along with us?...Here, take over.
JAR JAR: Hey, ho? Where wesa goen??
QUI-GON: You're the navigator.
JAR JAR: Yo dreamen mesa hopen...,br QUI-GON: Just relax, the Force will guide us...
JAR JAR: Ooooh, maxibig..."da Force"...Wellen, dat smells stinkowiff.

JAR JAR veers the craft to the left and turns the lights on. The coral vistas are grand, fantastic, and wonderous.

OBI-WAN: Why were you banished, Jar Jar?
JAR JAR: Tis a long tale, buta small part wawdabe mesa...ooooh...aaaa.....clumsy.
OBI-WAN: They banished you because you're clumsy?

As the little sub glides into the planet core, a large dark shape begins to follow.

JAR JAR: Mesa cause-ed mabee one or duey lettal bitty axadentes...yud-say boom da gasser, un crash Der Bosses heyblibber...den banished.

Suddenly there is a loud CRASH, and the little craft lurches to one side.
QUI-GON looks around and sees a huge, lumimnous OPEE SEA KILLER has hooked them with its long gooey tongue.

QUI-GON: Full speed ahead.

Instead of full ahead, JAR JAR jams the controls into reverse. The sub flies into the mouth of the creature.

JAR JAR: Oooops.
OBI-WAN: Give me the controls.

OBI-WAN takes over the controls and the OPEE SEA KILLER instantly releases the sub from its mouth.

JAR JAR: Wesa free!

As the sub zooms away they see a larger set of jaws, munching on the hapless KILLER. The jaws belong to the incredible SANDO AQUA MONSTER. The lights on the tiny sub begin to flicker as they cruise deeper into the gloom.

QUI-GON: There's always a bigger fish.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE and RUNE stand before a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

NUTE: The invasion is on schedule, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS: Good. I have the Senate bogged down in procedures. By the time this incident comes up for a vote, they will have no choice but to accept your control of the system.
NUTE: The Queen has great faith the Senate will side with her.
DARTH SIDIOUS: Queen Amidala is yound and naive. You will find controlling her will not be difficult. You have done well, Viceroy.
NUTE: Thank you, My Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades away.

RUNE: You didn't tell him about the missing Jedi?
NUTE: No need to report that to him, until we have something to report.

INT. SUB COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

Sparks are flying, and water is leaking into the cabin. The sound of the power drive drops.

OBI-WAN: .....we're losing power.

OBI-WAN is working with the sparking wires. JAR JAR panics.

QUI-GON: Stay calm. We're not in trouble yet.
JAR JAR: What yet? Monstairs out dare! Leak'n in here, all'n sink'n, and nooooo power! You nutsen! WHEN YOUSA TINK WESA IN TROUBLE?!!!?
OBI-WAN: Power's back.

The lights flicker on, revealing an ugly COLO CLAW FISH right in front of them.

JAR JAR: Monstairs back!

The large COLO CLAW FISH is surprised and rears back. The sub turns around and speeds away.

JAR JAR: (cont'd) Wesa in trouble now??
QUI-GON: Relax.

QUI-GON puts his hand on JAR JAR's shoulder. JAR JAR relaxes into a coma.

OBI-WAN: You overdid it.

The COLO CLAW FISH leaps after the fleeing sub as it shoots out of the tunnel and into the waiting jaws of the SANDO AQUA MONSTER.

OBI-WAN (cont'd) This is not good!

JAR JAR regains consciousness.
JAR JAR: Wesa dead yet?? Oie Boie!

JAR JAR's eyes bulge, and he faints again. The sub narrowly avoids the deadly teeth of the AQUA MONSTER. The COLO CLAW FISH chasing them isn't so lucky. It is munched in half by the larger predator. The little sub slips away.

QUI-GON: Head for that outcropping.

EXT. THEED - MAIN ROAD INTO THEED - DAY (FX)

The long columns of the DROID ARMY move down the main road leading to Theed, the Naboo capital.

EXT. THEED PLAZA - DAY (FX)

As the QUEEN watches helplessly from a window in the palace, a transport carrying NUTE and RUNE lands in Theed Plaza. They exit the transport.

NUTE: Ah, victory!

INT. NABOO LAKE - UNDERWATER - SUB (FX)

The little sub continue to propel itself toward the surface, which is brightly lit.

JAR JAR: Wesa dude it!

EXT. THEED - ESTUARY - DAY

Paradise. Billowing clouds frame a romantic body of water. There is a LOUD RUSH OF BUBBLES, and a small sub bobs to the surface.
The current in the estuary begins to pull the sub backward into a fast moving river. OBI-WAN switches off the two remaining bubble canopies.
QUI-GON stands up to look around. JAR JAR lets out a sigh of relief.

JAR JAR: Wesa safe now.
QUI-GON: Get this thing started.
JAR JAR: Dissen berry good. Hey?
OBI-WAN: What is it?

JAR JAR looks back to where they're drifting. He sees they are headed for a huge waterfall.

JAR JAR: What!!?? Oie boie!

OBI-WAN tries to start the engine. The long props behind the sub slowly begin to rotate. OBI-WAN struggles until finally, a few feet short of the waterfall, the sub starts and is able to generate enough power to stop drifting backward in the powerful current. The sub slowly moves forward. In the background, QUI-GON takes a cable out of his belt. The engine coughs and dies. They start drifting backward again. JAR JAR panics.

JAR JAR: (cont'd) Iyiiyi, wesa die'n here, hey!

QUI-GON shoots the thin cable, and it wraps itself around a railing on the shore. The sub pulls the cable taut, and the little craft hangs precariously over the edge of the waterfall.

QUI-GON: Come on...

OBI-WAN climbs out of the sub and pulls himself along the cable. QUI-GON starts in after him.

QUI-GON: (cont'd) Come on, Jar Jar.
JAR JAR: No! Too scary!
OBI-WAN: Get up here!
JAR JAR: No a mighty no!

JAR JAR looks back and sees he is hanging over the waterfall.

JAR JAR: (cont'd) Oie boie...mesa comen. Mesa comen!

JAR JAR starts to climb out of the sub. OBI-WAN is on shore and helps to pull QUI-GON out of the water.

OBI-WAN: That was close.
BATTLE DROID 3B3: Drop your weapons!

The TWO JEDI turn around to see a BATTLE DROID standing in front of them.
JAR JAR climbs up on shore between the JEDI.

BATTLE DROID 3B3: I said drop your weapons

QUI-GON ignites his laser sword, and in a brief flash, the DROID is cut down by the JEDI. A stray laser bolt hits the cable and the sub breaks lose, crashing down the waterfall.
The JEDI move on. JAR JAR reluctantly follows and looks back at the mess.

JAR JAR: Whoa!!!

EXT. THEED - PALACE - DAY

The waterfalls of Theed sparkle in the noonday sun.

INT. THEED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA, SIO BIBBLE, and FIVE OF HER HANDMAIDENS (EIRTAE, YANE, PADME, RABE, SACHE) are surrounded by TWENTY DROIDS. CAPTAIN PANAKA and FOUR NABOO GUARDS are also held at gunpoint. NUTE and RUNE stand in the middle of the room.

BIBBLE: ...how will you explain this invasion to the Senate?
NUTE: The Naboo and the Federation will forge a treaty that will legitimize our occupation here. I've been assured it will be ratified by the Senate.
AMIDALA: I will not co-operate.
NUTE: Now, now, your Highness. You are not going to like what we have in store for your people. In time, their suffering will persuade you to see our point of view. Commander. (OOM-9 steps forward) Process them.
OOM-9: Yes, sir! (turns to his sergeant) Take them to Camp Four.

The SERGEANT marches the GROUP out of the throne room.

EXT. PALACE - PLAZA - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA, PADME, EIRTA, YANE, RABE, SACHE, CAPTAIN PANAKA, SIO BIBBLE, and FOUR GUARDS are led out of the palace by ten BATTLE DROIDS. The plaza is filled with tanks and BATTLE DROIDS, which they pass on their way to the detention camp. Unbeknownst to them, QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, and JAR JAR sneak across on a walkway above the plaza and jump from a balcony to begin an attack to rescue the QUEEN.

FOUR BATTLE DROIDS are instantly cut down. MORE DROIDS move forward and are also cut down by the JEDIS' flashing lightsabres until there is only the DROID SERGEANT left. The SERGEANT starts to run but is pulled back to QUI-GON by the Force, until finally he is dispatched by the JEDI.

JAR JAR: Yousa guys bombad!

QUEEN AMIDALA and the OTHERS are amazed. JAR JAR is getting used to this.
They move between two buildings.

QUI-GON: Your Highness, we are the Ambassadors, for the Supreme Chancellor.
BIBBLE: Your negotiations seem to have failed, Ambassador.
QUI-GON: The negotiations never took place. Your Highness, we must make contact with the republic.

CAPTAIN PANAKA steps forward.

CAPT. PANAKA: They've knocked out all our communications.
QUI-GON: Do you have transports?
CAPT. PANAKA: In the main hanger. This way.

THEY disappear down an alleyway as the ALARMS are sounded

INT. CENTRAL HANGER - HALLWAY - DAY

CAPTAIN PANAKA cracks open a side door to the central hanger. QUI-GON looks in over his shoulder. OBI-WAN, JAR JAR, and the rest of the group are behind him. They see several Naboo spacecraft guarded by about FIFTY BATTLE DROIDS. ALARMS can be heard in the distance.

CAPT. PANAKA: There are too many of them.
QUI-GON: That won't be a problem. (to Amidala) Your Highness, under the circumstances, Isuggest you come to Coruscant with us.
AMIDALA: Thank you, Ambassador, but my place is here with my people.
QUI-GON: They will kill you if you stay.
BIBBLE: They wouldn't dare.
CAPT. PANAKA: They need her to sign a treaty to make this invasion of theirs legal. They can't afford to kill her.
QUI-GON: The situation here is not what it seems. There is something else behind all this, Your Highness. There is no logic in the Federation's move here. My feelings tell me they will destroy you.
BIBBLE: Please, Your Highness, reconsider. Our only hope is for the Senate to side with us... Senator Palpatine will need your help.
CAPT. PANAKA: Getting past their blockade is impossible, Your Highness.
Any attempt to escape will be dangerous.
BIBBLE: Your Highness, I will stay here and do what I can...They will have to retain the Council of Governors in order to maintain control. But you must leave...

The QUEEN turns to PADME and EIRTAE.

AMIDALA: Either choice presents a great risk...to all of us...
PADME: We are brave, Your Highness.
QUI-GON: If you are to leave, Your Highness, it must be now.
AMIDALA: Then, I will plead our case before the Senate. (to Bibble) Be careful, Governor.

INT. CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

The door opens to the main hanger. QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, JAR JAR, CAPTAIN PANAKA, TWO GUARDS, and THREE HANDMAIDENS (PADME, EIRTAE, RABE),
followed by QUEEN AMIDALA, head for a sleek chrome spacecraft. SIO BIBBLE, YANE and SACHE stay behind. The HANDMAIDENS begin to cry.

CAPT. PANAKA: We need to free those pilots.

CAPTAIN PANAKA points to TWENTY GUARDS, GROUND CREW, and PILOTS held in a corner by SIX BATTLE DROIDS.

OBI-WAN: I'll take care of that. OBI-WAN heads toward the group of captured pilots.

QUI-GON and the QUEEN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, JAR JAR, and the rest Of the GROUP approach the GUARDS at the ramp of the Naboo craft.

GUARD DROID: Where are you going?
QUI-GON: I'm Ambassador for the Supreme Chancellor, and I'm taking those people to Coruscant.
DROID GUARD: You're under arrest!

The DROID GUARD draws his weapon, but before any of the DROIDS can fire, they are cut down. OTHER GUARDS run to their aid. OBI-WAN attacks the GUARDS around the PILOTS. QUI-GON stands, fighting off DROIDS as the OTHERS rush on board the spacecraft. OBI-WAN, the FREED PILOTS (including RIC OLIE), GUARDS and GROUND CREW MEMBERS rush on board the ship. The OTHER PILOTS and GUARDS race to SIO BIBBLR. After everyone has made it onto the ship, QUI-GONjumps on board. ALARMS sound. MORE DROIDS rush into the hanger and fire as the ship takes off.

EXT. THEED - HANGER ENTRY - DAY (FX)

The ship exits the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS standing in the hanger shoot at them.

EXT. SPACE (FX)

The sleek spacecraft speeds away from the planet of Naboo and heads for the deadly Federation blockade.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

The PILOT, RIC OLIE, navigates toward the massive battleship, QUI-GON and CAPTAIN PANAKA watch.

RIC OLIE: ....our communications are still jammed.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - DROID HOLD

JAR JAR is led into a low, cramped doorway by OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN: Now stay here, and keep out of trouble.

OBI-WAN closes the door. JAR JAR looks around and sees a long row of five short, dome-topped ASTRO DROIDS (R-2 units). The all look alike, except for thier paint color, and they all seem to be shut down.

JAR JAR: Ello, boyos. (no response) Disa wanna longo trip...hey?

JAR JAR taps a bright red R-2 UNIT on the head, and its head pops up a bit.
He lets out a gasp as he lifts the head.

JAR JAR: (Cont'd) Tis opens?...Oooops! Many springs and things come flying out.

JAR JAR quickly closes it again, very embarrassed.

JAR JAR: (Cont'd) Yoi! Just yoken!
RIC OLIE: Powers back! That little droid did it. He bypassed the main power drive. Deflector shield up, at maximum.

The lone BLUE DROID finishes his repairs and goes back into the ship. The Naboo spacecraft races away from the Federation battleship.

RIC OLIE: There's not enough power to get us to Coruscant...the hyperdrive is leaking.
QUI-GON: We'll have to land somewhere to refuel and repair the ship.

QUI-GON studies a star chart on a monitor.

OBI-WAN: Here, Master. Tatooine... It's small, out of the way, poor... The Trade Federation has no presence there.
CAPT. PANAKA: How can you be sure?
QUI-GON: It's controlled by the Hutts...
CAPT. PANAKA: The Hutts??
OBI-WAN: It's risky...but there's no alternative.
CAPT. PANAKA: You can't take Her Royal Highness there! The Hutts are gangsters... If they discovered her...
QUI-GON: ...It would be no different than if we landed on a system controlled by the Federation...except the Hutts aren't looking for her, which gives us an advantage.

CPATAIN PANAKA takes a deep breath in frustration.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The Naboo spacecraft races away.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - CONFERENCE ROOM

NUTE and RUNE sit around a conference table with a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

NUTE: We control all the cities in the North and are searching for any other settlements...
DARTH SIDIOUS: Destroy all high-ranking officials, Viceroy...slowly...quietly. And Queen Amidala, has she signed the treaty?
NUTE: She has disappeared, My Lord. One Naboo cruiser got pat the blockade.
DARTH SIDIOUS: Viceroy, find her! I want that treaty signed.
NUTE: My Lord, it's impossible to locate the ship. It's out of our range.
DARTH SIDIOUS: ...not for a Sith...

A second SITH LORD appears behind DARTH SIDIOUS.

DARTH SIDIOUS: (Cont'd) ...Viceroy, this is my apprentice. Lord Maul. He will find your lost ship.
NUTE: Yes, My Lord. The hologram fades off.
NUTE: (Cont'd) This is getting out of hand...now there are two of them.
RUNE: We should not have made this bargain. What will happen when the Jedi become aware of these Sith Lords?

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEENS CHAMBERS

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and the LITTLE BLUE DROID stand before QUEEN AMIDALA and her THREE HANDMAIDENS, PADME, EIRTAE and RABE.

CAPT. PANAKA: ...An extremely well put together little droid. Without a doubt, it saved the ship, as well as our lives.
AMIDALA: It is to be commended...what is its number?

The LITTLE BLUE DROID lets out a series of bleeps.CAPTAIN PANAKA leans over and scrapes some dirt off of the side of the DROID and read the number:

CAPT. PANAKA: R2-D2, Your Highness.
AMIDALA: Thank you, Artoo Detoo. You have proven to be very loyal...Padme!

PADME bows before the QUEEN.

AMIDALA: (Cont'd) Clean this droid up the best you can. It deserves our gratitude...(to Panaka) Continue, Captain.

CAPTAIN PANAKA looks nervously to OBI-WAN and QUI-GON.

QUI-GON: Yor Highness, we are heading for a remote planet called Tatooine.
It is a system far beyond the reach of the Trade Federation. There we will be able to make needed repairs, then travel on to Coruscant.
CAPTAIN PANAKA: Your Highness, Tatooine is very dangerous. It's controlled by an alliance of gangs called the Hutts. I do not agree with the Jedi on this.
QUI-GON: You must trust my judgement, Your Highness.

AMIDALA and PADME exchange looks. PADME moves next to the DROID.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

PADME sits in the Main Area, cleaning R2-D2, the brave little Astra Droid.
JAR JAR pops out of an open door.

JAR JAR: Hidoe!

Both PADME and ARTOO jump and let out a little SCREAM. The Gungan is embarrassed that he frightened them.

JAR JAR: (Cont'd) Sorry, nomeanen to scare yousa.
PADME: That's all right.
JAR JAR: I scovered oily back dare. Needen it?
PADME: Thank you. This little guy is quite a mess.

JAR JAR hands PADME the oil can.

JAR JAR: Mesa Ja Ja Binksss... PADME: I'm Padme, I attend Her Highness, You're a Gungan, aren't you? (Jar Jar nods) How did you end up here with us?
JAR JAR: Me no know...mesa day starten pitty okeyday witda brisky morning munchen. Den boom....getten berry skeered, un grabbed dat Jedi, and before mesa knowen it...pow! Mesa here. (he shrugs)...getten berry berry skeered.

ARTOO BEEPS a sympathetic beep.

INT. ANBOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and CAPTAIN PANAKA watch over RIC OLIE'S shoulder. A large yellow planet appears directly ahead. RIC OLIE searches his scopes.

OBI-WAN: Tahyt's it. Tatooine.
RIC OLIE: There's a settlement...a spaceport, looks like.
QUI-GON: Land near the outskirts. We don't want to attract any attention.

EXT. TATOOINE - SPACE (FX)

The ship heads toward the planet of Tatooine.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The Naboo spacecraft lands in the desert in a swirl of dust. The spaceport of Mos Espa is seen in the distance.

EXT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

OBI-WAN is hoisting the hyperdrive out of a floor panel. JAR JAR rushes up to him and falls to his knees.

JAR JAR: Obi-Wan, sire, pleeese, no mesa go!
OBI-WAN: Sorry, Qui-Gon's right. You'll make things less obvious.

JAR JAR walks back to ARTOO in the hallway as QUI-GON (dressed as a farmer)
enters the main area.

OBI-WAN: (Cant'd) The Hyperdrive generator is gone. We will need a new one.

QUI-GON moves closer to OBI-WAN and speaks quietly to him.

QUI-GON: Don't let them send ant transmissions. Be wary...I sense a disturbance in the Force.
OBI-WAN: I fell it also, Master.

QUI-GON goes into the hallway to meet up with ARTOO and JAR JAR. They head to the exit ramp.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - SPACESHIP - DAY

They start their trek across the desert toward the city of Mos Espa. In the distance, a strange looking caravan makes its way toward the spaceport.

JAR JAR: Dis sun doen murder tada skin.

From the spaceship, CAPTAIN PANAKA and PADME run toward them.

CAPT. PANAKA: Wait!

QUI-GON stops as they catch up. PADME is dresses in rough peasant's garb.

CAPT. PANAKA: (Cont'd) Her Highness commands you to take her handmaiden with you. She wishes for her to observe the local...
QUI-GON: No more commands from Her Highness today, Captain. This spaceport is not going to be pleasant...
CAPT. PANAKA: The Queen wishes it. She is curious about this planet.
PADME: I've been trained in defense... I can take care of myself.
CAPT. PANAKA: Don't make me go back and tell her you refuse.
QUI-GON: I don't have time to argue. But this is not a good idea. Stay close to me.

He gives PADME a stern look.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - DAY

The little GROUP walks down the main street of Mos Espa. They pass dangerous looking citizens of all types. PADME looks around in awe at this exotic enviroment.

QUI-GON: ...moisture farms for the most part, but also a few indigenous tribes and scavengers. The few spaceports like this one are havens for those who do not wish to be found...
PADME: ....like us. JAR JAR is in a constant state of panic.

ARTOO whistles along, with perfect confidence.

JAR JAR: Dissen berry berry bad. (steps in ooze)
Ooooh...icky...icky...goo.

EXT. MOS ESPA - JUNK DEALER PLAZA - DAY

The GROUP comes to a little plaza surrounded by several junk spaceship dealers.

QUI-GON: We'll try one of the smaller dealers.

They head for a little junk shop that has a huge pile of broken spaceships stacked up behind it.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

QUI-GON, JAR JAR, PADME, and ARTOO enter the dingy junk shop and are greeted by WATTO, a pudgy blue alien who flies on short little wings like a hummingbird.

WATTO: (subtitled) Hi chuba da naga? (What do you want?)
QUI-GON: I need parts for a J-type 327 Nubian.
WATTO: Ah yes, ah yes. Nubian. We have lots of that. What kinda junk?
(subtitled) Peedenkel! Naba dee unko (Boy, get in here! Now!)
QUI-GON: My droid here has a readout of what I need.

A disheveled boy, ANAKIN SKYWALKER, runs in from the junk yard. He is about nine years old, very dirty, and dressed in rags. WATTO raises a hand, and ANAKIN flinches.

WATTO: (subtitled) Coona tee-tocky malia? (What took you so long?)
ANAKIN: (subtitled) Mel tassa cho-passa... (I was cleaning the bin like you...)
WATTO: (subtitled) Chut-Chut! Ganda doe wallya. (Never mind! Watch the store) Me dwana no bata. (I've got some selling to do here.) (to Gui-Gon)
Soooo, let me take- a thee out back. Ni you'll find what you need.

ARTOO and QUI-GON follow WATTO toward the junk yard, leaving JAR JAR with PADME and the young boy ANAKIN. JAR JAR picks up a gizmo, trying to figure out its purpose. QUI-GON takes the part out of his hand and puts it back.

QUI-GON: Don't touch anything.

JAR JAR makes a rude face to QUI-GON's back and sticks out his long tongue.
ANAKIN sits on the counter, pretending to clean a part, staring at PADME.
She is the most beautiful creaure he has ever seen in his life. PADME is a little embarrassed by his stare, but she musters up an amused smile.
Finally, he gets the courage to speak.

ANAKIN: Are you an angel?
PADME: What?
ANAKIN: An angel. I've heard the deep space pilots talk about them. They live on the Moons of Iego I thimk. They are the most beautiful creatures in the universe. They are good and kind, and so pretty they make even the most hardened spice pirate cry.

PADME looks at him, not knowing what to say. PADME: I've never heard of angels.

ANAKIN: You must be one...maybe you just don't know it.
PADME: You're a funny little boy. How do you know so much?
ANAKIN: Since I was very little, three, I think. My Mom and I were sold to Gardulla the Hutt, but she lost us, betting on the Podraces, to Watto, who's a lot better master than Gardulla, I think.
PADME: You're...a slave?

ANAKIN looks at PADME defiantly.

ANAKIN: I am a person! My name is Anakin.
PADME: I'm sorry. I don't fully understand. (looking around)This is a strange world to me.

ANAKIN studies her intently.

ANAKIN: You are a strange girl to me.

JAR JAR pushes the nose on what appears to be a LITTLE DROID, and it instantly comes to life, grows legs and arms, and starts marching around, knocking over everything. JAR JAR hold on but can't stop it.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Hit the nose!

JAR JAR hits the nose, and the DROID collapses back into its original state. ANAKIN and PADME laugh. ANAKIN watches PADME straighten her hair.

EXT. WATTO'S JUNK YARD - BEHIND SHOP - DAY

WATTO reads a small portable monitor he is holding. He stands before a hyperdrive.

WATTO: ...Here it is...a T-14 hyperdrive generator!! Thee in luck, I'm the only one hereabouts who has one...but thee might as well buy a new ship. It would be cheaper, I think...Sying of which, how's thee going to pay for all this?
QUI-GON: I have 20,000 Republic dataries.
WATTO: Republic credits?!? Republic credits are no good out here. I need something more real...
QUI-GON: I don't have anything else. (raising his hand) But credits will do fine.
WATTO: No they won'ta. QUI-GON, using his mind power, waves his hand again.
QUI-GON: Credits will do fine.
WATTO: No, they won'ta. What you think you're some kinda Jedi, waving your hand around like that? I'm a Toydarian. Mind tricks don'ta work on me-only money. No money, no parts! No deal! And no one else has a T-14 hyperdrive, I promise you that.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

JAR JAR pulls a part out of a stack of parts to inspect it, and they all come tumblimg down. He struggles to catch them, only to knock more down.
ANAKIN and PADME are oblivious.

ANAKIN: ...wouldn't have lasted long if I weren't so good at fixing things. I'm making my own droid...

QUI-GON hurries into the shop, followed by ARTOO. QUI-GON: We're leaving.
JAR JAR follows QUI-GON. PADME gives ANAKIN a loving look.

PADME: I'm glad I met you,....ah...
ANAKIN: ...Anakin.
PADME: Anakin.
ANAKIN: Anakin Skywalker.
PADME: Padme Naberrie.

PADME turns, and ANAKIN looks sad as he watches her leave.

ANAKIN: I'm glad I met you too.

WATTO enters the junk yard, shaking his head.

WATTO: (subtitled) Ootmians! Tinka me chasa hopoe ma booty na nolia.
(Outlanders! They think because we live so far from the center, we don't know nothing.)
ANAKIN: (subtitled) La lova num botaffa. (They seemed nice to me.) WATTO :
(subtitled) Fweepa niaga. Tolpa da bunky dunko. (Clean the racks, then you can go home.)

ANAKIN lets out a "yipee" and runs out the back.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - ALCOVE - DAY

QUI-GON, ARTOO, JAR JAR, and PADME have found a quiet spot between two buildings. The busy street beyond is filled with dangerous looking creatures. QUI-GON is talking on his com-link, while JAR JAR nervously watches the street. OBI-WAN is in the main hold of the Naboo craft.

QUI-GON: ...Obi-Wan, you're sure there isn't anything of value left on board?
OBI-WAN: (V.O) A few containers of supplies, the Queen's wardrobe, maybe.
Not enough for you to barter with. Not in the ammounts you're talking about.
QUI-GON: All right. Another solution will present itself. I'll check back.

QUI-GON puts his comlink away and starts out into the main street. JAR JAR grabs his arm.

JAR JAR: Noah gain...da beings hereabouts cawazy. Wesa be robbed un crunched.
QUI-GON: Not likely. We have nothing of value, that's our problem.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - MARKET - DAY

QUI-GON, PADME, JAR JAR, and ARTOO move out into the street. JAR JAR is walking behind the others. They walk by an outdoor cafe filled with a rough gang of aliens, one of which is especially ugly, SEBULBA, a spider-like creature. JAR JAR stops for a moment in front of a stall selling dead frogs hanging on a wire. He looks around to see if anyone is looknig, then sticks out his tongue, and gets hold of one, pulling it into his mouth.
Unfortunately, the frog is tied tightly to the wire. The vendor suddenly appears.

VENDOR: Hey, that will be seven truguts!!

JAR JAR opens his mouth in surprise, and the frog snaps away, ricochets around the market, and lands in Sebulba's soup, splashing him. As JAR JAR moves away from the VENDOR, SEBULBA jumps up on the table and grabs the hapless Gungan.

SEBULBA: (subtitled) Chuba!! (You!!) JAR JAR: Who, mesa?? SEBULBA :
(subtitled) Ni chuba na?? (Is this yours??)

SEBULBA holds the frog up to the Gungan threateningly. SEVERAL OTHER CREATURES start to gather. SEBULBA shoves JAR JAR to the ground. The Gungan desperately tries to scramble to safety.

JAR JAR: (to himself) Why mesa always da one??
ANAKIN: (V.O) Because you're afraid.

JAR JAR turns to see ANAKNI pushing his way next to him. The boy stands up to SEBULBA in a very self-assured way.

ANAKIN: (subtitled) Chess ko, Sebulba...Coo wolpa tooney rana. (Careful, Sebulba...This one's very connected.)

SEBULBA stops his assault on JAR JAR and turns to ANAKIN.

SEBULBA: (subtitled) Tooney rana nu pratta dunko, shag. (Connected?? Whada you mean, slave?)
ANAKIN: (subtitled) Oh da Hutt...cha porko ootman geesa...me teesa rodda co pana pee choppa chawa. (As in Hutt...big time outlander, this one... I'd hate to see you diced before we race again.)
SEBULBA: (subtitled) Neek me chowa, wermo, mo killee ma klounkee(Next time we race, wermo, it will be the end of you!) Una noto wo shag, me wompity du pom pom. (If you weren't a slave, I'd squash you right now.)

SEBULBA turns away.

ANAKIN: (subtitled) Eh, chee bana do mullee ra. (Yeah, it'd be a pity if you had to pay for me.)

QUI-GON, PADME and ARTOO arrive.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Hi! Your buddy here was about to be turned into orange goo. He picked a fight with a Dug. An especially dangerous Dug called Sebulba.
JAR JAR: Nosir, nosir. Mesa hate crunchen. Dat's da last ting mesa wanten.
QUI-GON: Nevertheless, the boy is right...you were heading for trouble.
Thank you, my young friend.

PADME looks at ANAKINB and smiles; he smiles back. They start walking down the crowded street.

JAR JAR: Mesa doen nutten!
ANAKIN: Fear attracts the fearful. He was trying to overcome his fear by squashing you...be less afraid.
PADME: And that works for you.
ANAKIN: To a point. (he smiles)

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - SPACESHIP - DAY

OBI-WAN stands in front of the Naboo spacecraft as the wind picks up and begins to whip at his robe. CAPTAIN PANAKA exits the ship and joins him.

OBI-WAN: This storm's going to slow them down.
CAPT. PANAKA: It looks pretty bad. We'd better seal the ship.

CAPTAIN PANAKA'S comlink sounds off.

CAPT. PANAKA: (Cont'd) Yes? CAPT. PANAKA: We'll be right there.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - FRUIT STAND - DAY

ANAKIN and the GROUP stop at a fruit stand run by a jolly, but very poor, old lady named JIRA.

ANAKIN: How are you feeling today, Jira?
JIRA: The heat's never been kind to me, you know, Annie!
ANAKIN: Guess what? I've found that cooling unit I've been searching for.
It's pretty beat up, but I'll have it fixed up for you in no time, I promise.
JIRA: You're a fine boy, Annie.
ANAKIN: I'll take four pallies today. (to Padme) You'll like these...

ANAKIN reaches in his pocket and comes up with three coins. He drops one.
QUI-GON picks it up, revealing for a moment, his lightsabre.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Whoops, I thought I had more...Make thgat three, I'm not hungry.

The wind picks up. SHOP OWNERS are starting to close up their shops as JIRA gives them their pallies.

JIRA: Gracious, my bones are aching...storm's coming on, Annie. You'd better get home quick.
ANAKIN: (to QUI-GON) Do you have shelter?
QUI-GON: We'll hed back to our ship.
ANAKIN: Is it far?
PADME: On the outskirts.
ANAKIN: You'll never reach the outskirts in time...sandstorms are very, very dangerous. Come with me. Hurry!

The GROUP follows ANAKIN as he rushes down the windy street.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - STREET - SANDSTORM - DAY

The wind is blowing hard as QUI-GON, JAR JAR, and PADME follow ANAKIN down the street and into a slave hovel.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON, JAR JAR, ARTOO, and PADME enter a small living space.

ANAKIN: Mom! Mom! I'm home.
JAR JAR: Dissen cozy.

Anakin's mother, SHMI SKYWALKER, a warm, friendly woman of forty, enters from her work area and is startled to see the room full of people.

SHMI: Oh, my!! Annie, what's this?
ANAKIN: These are my friends, Mom. This is Padme, and...gee, I don't know any of your names.
QUI-GON: I'm Qui-Gon Jinn, and this is Jar Jar Binks. ARTOO lets out a little beep.
PADME: ...and our droid, Artoo-Detoo.
ANAKIN: I'm building a droid. You wanna see?
SHMI: Anakin! Why are they here?
ANAKIN: A sandstorm, Mom. Listen.

The wind HOWLS outside.

QUI-GON: Your son was kind enough to offer us shelter.
ANAKIN: Come on! Let me show you Threepio!

ANAKIN leads PADME into the other room. ARTOO follows, beeping all the way.
QUI-GON takes five small capsules from his utility belt and hands them to SHMI.

QUI-GON: I have enough food for a meal.
SHMI: Oh, tank you. Thank you so much. I'm sorry if I was abrupt. I'll never get used to Anakin's surprises.
QUI-GON: He's a very special boy. SHMI looks at him as if he's discovered a secret.
SHMI: Yes, I know.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - BEDROOM - DAY

ANAKIN shows off his ANDROID, which is lying on his workbench. There is one eye in the head; the body, arms, and legs have no outer coverings.

ANAKIN: Isn't he great?! He's not finished yet.
PADME: He's wonderful!
ANAKIN: You reall like him? He's a protocol droid...to help Mom. Watch!

ANAKIN pushes a switch, and the DROID sits up. Anakin rushes around, grabs an eye and puts it in one of the sockets.

THREEPIO: How do you do, I am See-Threepio, Human Cyborg Relations. How might I serve you?
PADME: He's perfect.
ANAKIN: When the storm is over, you can see my racer. I'm building a Podracer!

PADME smiles at his enthusiasm. ARTOO lets out a flurry of beeps and whistles.

THREEPIO: I beg your pardon....what do you mean I'm naked?

ARTOO BEEPS

THREEPIO: (Cont'd) My parts are showing? Oh, my goodness. How embarrassing!

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEENS CHAMBERS

AMIDALA, EIRTAE, RABE, and OBI-WAN watch a very bad transmission of a SIO BIBBLE hologram.

BIBBLE: ...cut off all food supplies until you return...the death toll is catastrophic...we must bow to their wishes, Your Highness...Please tell us what to do! If you can hear us, Your Highness, you must contact me...

AMIDALA looks upset...almost nervous.

OBI-WAN: It's a trick. Send no reply... Send no transmission of any kind.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON listens to his comlink. OBI-WAN is in the cockpit.

OBI-WAN: ...the Queen is upset...but absolutly no reply was sent.
QUI-GON: It sounds like bait to establish a connection trace.
OBI-WAN: What if it is true and the people are dying?
QUI-GON: Either way, we're running out of time.

EXT. CORUSCANT - BALCONY OVERLOOKING CITY - NIGHT

DARTH SIDIOUS and DARTH MAUL look out over the vast city.

DARTH MAUL: Tatooine is sparsely populated. If the trace was correct, I will find them quickly, Master.
DARTH SIDIOUS: Move against the Jedi first...you will then have no difficulty taking the Queen back to Naboo, where she will sign the treaty.
DARTH MAUL: At last we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi. At last we will have revenge.
DARTH SIDIOUS: You have been well trained, my young apprentice, they will be no match for you. It is too late for them to stop us now. Everything is going as planned. The Republic will soon be in my command.

The hologram of DARTH MAUL fades off as DARTH SIDIOUS looks out over the city. EXT. MOS ESPA - SANDSTORM - DAY

The giant sandstorm engulfs the town, including the Naboo spaceship on the outskirts of the city center, where Watto's ship is; and the slave quarters, where drifts of sand begin building up against Anakin's house.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON, ANAKIN, SHMI, JAR JAR, and PADME are seated around a makeshift table, having dinner as the wind howls outside.
JAR JAR slurps his soup rather loudly. Everyone looks at him. He turns a little brighter red.

SHMI: All slaves have transmitters placed inside their bodies somewhere.
ANAKIN: I've been working on a scanner to try and locate them, but no luck.
SHMI: Any attempt to escape...
ANAKIN: ...and they blow you up...poof!

PADME and JAR JAR are horrified.

JAR JAR: How wude.
PADME: I can't believe there is still slavery in the galaxy. The Republic's anti-slavery laws...
SHMI: The Republic doesn't exist out here...we must survive on our own.

An awkward silence. ANAKIN attempts to end the embarrassment.

ANAKIN: Have you ever seen a Podrace?

PADME shakes her head no. She notices the concern of SHMI. JAR JAR snatches some food from a bowl at the other end of the table with his tongue.
QUI-GON gives him a dirty look.

QUI-GON: They have Podracing on Malastare. Very fast, very dangerous.
ANAKIN: I'm the only human who can do it.

SHMI looks askance at her son.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Mom, what? I'm not bragging. It's true. Watto says he's never heard of a human doing it.
QUI-GON: You must have Jedi reflexes if you race Pods.

ANAKIN smiles. JAR JAR attempts to snare another bit of food from the bowl with his tongue, but QUI-GON, in a flash, grabs it between his thumb and forefinger. JAR JAR is startled.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) Don't do that again.

JAR JAR tries to acknowledge with some silly mumbling. QUI-GON lets go of the tongue, and it snaps back into JAR JAR's mouth.

ANAKIN: I...I was wondering...something...
QUI-GON: What?
ANAKIN: Well, ahhh...you're a Jedi Knight, aren't you?
QUI-GON: What makes you think that?
ANAKIN: I saw your laser sword. Only Jedi carry that kind of weapon.

QUI-GON leans back and slowly smiles.

QUI-GON: Perhaps I killed a Jedi and stole it from him.
ANAKIN: I don't think so... No one can kill a Jedi Knight.
QUI-GON: I wish that were so...
ANAKIN. I had a dream I was a Jedi. I came back here and freed all the slaves...have you come to free us?
QUI-GON: No, I'm afraid not...
ANAKIN: I think you have...why else would you be here?

QUI-GON thinks for a moment.

QUI-GON: I can see there's no fooling you...(leans forward) You mustn't let anyone know about us...we're on our way to Coruscant, the central system in the Republic, on a very important mission, and it must be kept secret.
ANAKIN: Coruscant...wow...how did you end up here in the outer rim?
PADME: Our ship was damaged, and we're stranded here until we can repair it.
ANAKIN: I can help! I can fix anything!
QUI-GON: I believe you can, but our first job is to aquire the parts we need...
JAR JAR: Wit no-nutten mula to trade.
PADME: These junk dealers must have a weakness of some kind.
SHMI: Gambling. Everything here revolves around betting on those awful races.
QUI-GON: Podracing... Greed can be a powerful ally.. if it's used properly.
ANAKIN: I've built a racer! It's the fastest ever...There's a big race tomorrow, on Boonta Eve. You could enter my pod. It's all but finished...
SHMI: Anakin, settle down. Watto won't let you...
ANAKIN: Watto doesn't know I've built it. (to Qui-Gon) You could make him think it's your's, and you could get him to let me pilot it for you.

QUI-GON looks to SHMI. She is upset.

SHMI: I don't want you to race, Annie...It's awful. I die every time Watto makes you do it.

ANAKIN: But Mom, I love it...and they need help...they're in trouble. The prize money would more than pay for the parts they need. JAR JAR: Wesa ina pitty bad goo.
GUI-GON: Your mother's right. Is there anyone friendly to the Republic who might be able to help us?

SHMI shakes her head no.

ANAKIN: We have to help them, Mom...you said that the biggest problem in the universe is no one helps each other...
SHMI: Anakin, don't...

JAR JAR belches. There is silence for a moment as they eat.

PADME: I'm sure Qui-Gon doesn't want to put your son in danger. We will find another way...
SHMI: No, Annie's right, there is no other way... I may not like it, but he can help you...he was meant to help you.
ANAKIN: Is that a yes? That is a yes!

The storm continues to rage outside the slave hovel.

EXT. MOS ESPA - JUNK DEALER PLAZA - DAY

The storm has passed. VENDORS and STREET PEOPLE clean up the mess and rebuild their food stalls. JAR JAR sits on a box in front of Watto's parts shop, watching all the activity with growing nervousness. ARTOO is standing next to him. PADME stops QUI-GON as he is about to enter the shop.

PADME: Are you sure about this? Trusting our fate to a boy we hardly know.
The Queen will not approve.
QUI-GON: The Queen does not need to know.
PADME: Well, I don't approve.

QUI-GON turns and starts into the shop.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

WATTO and ANAKIN are in the middle of an animated discussion in Huttese.

WATTO: Patta go bolla!
ANKAIN: No batta!
WATTO: Pedunky. Maa kee cheelya.
ANAKIN: Bayno, Bayno!

QUI-GON walks in, and WATTO and ANAKIN join him.

WATTO: The boy tells me you wanta sponser hi insa race. You can't afford parts. How can you do this? Not on Republic credits, I think. (he laughs)
QUI-GON: My ship will be the entry fee.

QUI-GON pulls a small object that looks like a watch out of his pocket, and a hologram of the Naboo spacecraft appears about a foot long in front of WATTO. He studies it.

WATTO: Not bad...not bad...a Nubian.
QUI-GON: It's in good order, except for the parts we need.
WATTO: ...but what would the boy ride? He smashed up my Pod in the last race. It will take some time to fix it.

ANAKIN is embarrassed and steps forward.

ANAKIN: Ahhhh....it wasn't my fault really...Sebulba flashed me with his vent ports. I actually saved the Pod...mostly.
WATTO: (laughing) That you did. The boy is good, no doubts there.
QUI-GON: I have...acquired a Pod in a game of chance. "The fastest ever built."
WATTO: I hope you didn't kill anyone I know for it. (laughs) So, you supply the Pod and the entry fee; I supply the boy. We split the winnings fifty-fifty, I think.
QUI-GON: Fifty-fifty!?! If it's going to be fifty-fifty, I suggest you front the cash for the entry. If we win, you keep all the winnings, minus the cost of the parts I need...If we lose, you keep my ship.

WATTO thinks about this. ANAKIN tries not to be nervous.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) Either way, you win.
WATTO: (subtitled) Deal! Yo bana pee ho-tah, meedee ya. (Your friend is a follish one, methinks.)

EXT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - TATOOINE DESERT - DAY

OBI-WAN stands outside the Naboo spacecraft, speaking into his comlink.
QUI-GON is on the back porch of the hovel.

OBI-WAN: What if this plan fails, Master? We could be stuck here for a long time.
QUI-GON: (V.O) A ship without a power supply will not get us anywhere, and there is something about this boy...

EXT MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - DAY

QUI-GON puts the comlink away as SHMI comes onto the porch

PADME, ANAKIN, JAR JAR, and ARTOO work on the engines of the Podracer in the courtyard below.

QUI-GON: You should be proud of your son. He gives without any thought of reward.
SHMI: He knows nothing of greed. He has...
QUI-GON: He has special powers.
SHMI: Yes...
QUI-GON: He can see things before they happen. That's why he appears to have such quick reflexes. It is a Jedi trait.
SHMI: He deserves better than a slave's life.
QUI-GON: The Force is unusally strong with him, that much is clear. Who was his father?
SHMI: There was no father, that I know of...I carried him, I gave him birth...I can't explain what happened. Can you help him?
QUI-GON: I'm afraid not. Had he been born in the Republic, we would have identified him early, and he would have become Jedi, no doubt...he has the way. But it's too late for him now, he's too old.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - BACK YARD - DAY

KITSTER (a young boy about Anakin's age), SEEK (a boy of ten), AMEE (a girl of six), and WALD (a Greedo Type, six years old) join ANAKIN, JAR JAR, ARTOO, and PADME securing some wiring.

ANAKIN: Padme and Jar Jar, this is my friend Kitster, and seek, Amee, and Wald.

All whistle, hoot, and speak a greeting.

KITSTER: Wow, a real Astro Droid...how'd you get so lucky?
ANAKIN: This isn't the half of it. I'm entered in the Boonta Race tomorrow!
KITSTER: What? With this??
WALD: (subtitled) Annie, Jesko na joka. 9You are such a joke, Annie.)
AMEE: You've been working on that thing for years. It's never going to run.
SEEK: Come on, let's go play ball. Keep it up, Annie, and you're gonna be bug squash.

SEEK, WALD, and AMEE take off, laughing. JAR JAR is fiddling with one of the energy binder plates.

ANAKIN: Hey! Jar Jar! Stay away from those energy binders...
JAR JAR: Who, mesa?
ANAKIN: If your hand gets caught in that beam, it will go numb for hours.

JAR JAR peeks at the energy plate; it makes a little electronic pop, zaps him in the mouth and jumps back. JAR JAR tries to say something, but his mouth is numb and his words are garbled.

JAR JAR: Ouch-dats muy bigo Oucho. (Gibberish)
KITSTER: But you don't even know if this thing will run.
ANAKIN: It will.

QUI-GON approaches the GROUP and gives ANAKIN a small battery. JAR JAR gets his hand caught in the afterburner and tries to tell Anakin, but can't get words out that make sense.

QUI-GON: I think it's time we found out. Use this power charge. ANAKIN :
Yes, sir!!

ANAKIN jumps into the little capsule behind the two giant engines. He puts the power pack back into the dashboard. EVERYONE backs away, except for JAR JAR who calls for help. Finally PADME frees him and the engines ignite with a ROAR. EVERYONE cheers.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - DAY

SHMI, watching from the porch, smiles sadly.

EXT. SLAVE QUARTERS - BALCONY - NIGHT

ANAKIN sits on the balcony rail of his hovel as QUI-GON tends to a cut. The BOY leans back to look at the vast blanket of stars in the sky.

QUI-GON: Sit still, Annie. Let me clean this cut.
ANAKIN: There are so many! Do they all have a system of planets?
QUI-GON: Most of them.
ANAKIN: Has anyone been to them all?
QU-IG0N: (laughs) Not likely.
ANAKIN: I want to be the first one to see them all... Ouch!

QUI-GON wipes a patch of blood off ANAKIN'S arm.

QUI-GON: There, good as new...

SHMI yells from inside the hovel.

SHMI: (O.S.) Annie, bedtime!

QUI-GON scrapes ANAKIN's blood onto a comlink chip.

ANAKIN: What are you doing?
QUI-GON: Checking your blood for infections.
ANAKIN: I've never seen...
SHMI: (O.S.) Annie! I'm not goiung to tell you again!
QUI-GON: Go on, you have a big day tomorrow. (beat) Goodnight.

ANAKIN rolls his eyes and runs into the hovel. QUI-GON takes the blood stained chip and inserts it into the comlink, then calls OBI-WAN.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) Obi-Wan...
OBI-WAN: Yes, Master.
QUI-GON: Make an analysis of this blood sample I'm sending you.
OBI-WAN: Wait a minute...
QUI-GON: I need a midi-chlorian count.
OBI-WAN: All right. I've got it.
QUI-GON: What are your readings?
OBI-WAN: Something must be wrong with the transmission.
QUI-GON: Here's a signal check.
OBI-WAN: Strange. The transmission seems to be in good order, but the reading's off the chart...over twenty thousand.
QUI-GON: (almost to himself) That's it then.
OBI-WAN: Even Master Yoda doesn't have a midi-chlorian count that high!
QUI-GON: No Jedi has.
OBI-WAN: What does it mean?
QUI-GON: I'm not sure.

The JEDI KNIGHT looks up and sees SHMI in the doorway watching him.
Embarrassed, she goes back into the kitchen while QUI-GON ponders the situation.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT MESA - NIGHT

The sinister looking Sith spacecraft lands on top of a desert mesa at dus, scattering a herd of banthas. DARTH MAUL walks to the edge of the mesa and studies the landscape with a pair of electrobinoculars. He picks out the lights of three different cities in the distance, then pushes buttons on his electronic armband.

Six football-sized PROBE DROIDS float out of the ship and head off in three different directions toward the cities.

DARTH MAUL stands on the mesa and watches them through his electrobinoculars.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - SUNRISE

Padme exits the hovel.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - BACK YARD - SUNRISE

As the twin suns rise, ARTOO is busy painting the racing Pod. ANAKIN is asleep. PADME passes ARTOO.

PADME: I hope you're about finished.

ARTOO whistles a positive reply. PADME sees KITSTER riding toward them on an EOPIE, a strange camel-lile creature. He is leading a second EOPIE behind him. PADME goes over to ANAKIN. He looks very vulnerable as he sleeps. She watches him, then touches him on the cheek. ANAKIN wakes up, yawns, and looks at her, a little puzzled.

ANAKIN: You were in my dream...you were leading a huge army into battle.
PADME: I hope not; I hate fighting. Your mother wants you to come in and clean up. We have to leave soon. ANAKIN stands up and stretches just as KITSTER arrives.

ANAKIN: Hook 'em up, Kitster. (to Padme) I won't be long. Where's Qui-Gon?

PADME: He and Jar Jar left already. They're with Watto at the arena.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

RACE CREWS mill about outside the Main Hanger.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

The hanger is a large building with a dozen or so Podracers being readied for the race. ALIEN CREWS and PILOTS rush about, making last minute fixes on their vehicles. WATTO, QUI-GON, and JAR JAR walk through the activity.

WATTO: ...I want to see your spaceship the moment the race is over.
QUI-GON: Patienc, my blue friend. You'll have your winnings before the suns set, and we'll be far away from here.
WATTO: Not if your ship belongs to me, I think...I warn you, no funny business.
QUI-GON: You don't think Anakin will win?

WATTO stops before an orange racer. Sitting to one side, having his shoulders and neck massaged by TWIN YOBANAS, is SEBULBA.

WATTO: Don't get me wrongo. I have great faith in the boy. He's a credit to your race, but Sebulba there is going to win, I think.
QUI-GON: Why?
WATTO: He always wins. (laughs) I'm betting heavily on Sebulba.
QUI-GON: I'll take that bet.
WATTO: (suddenly stops laughing) What??!! What do you mean?
QUI-GON: I'll wager my new racing pod against...say...the boy and his mother.
WATTO: A Pod for slaves. I don't think so...well, poerhaps. Just one...the mother, maybe...the boy isn't for sale.
QUI-GON: The boy is small, he can't be worth much.

WATTO shakes his head.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) For the fastest Pod ever built?!

WATTO shakes his head again.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) Both, or no bet.
WATTO: No Pod's worth two slaves...not by a long shot...one slave or nothing.
QUI-GON: The boy, then...

WATTO pulls out a small cube from his pocket.

WATTO: We'll let fate decide. Blue it's the boy, red his mother...

WATTO tosses the cube down. QUI-GON lifts his hand slightly; it turns blue.
QUI-GON smiles. WATTO is angry.

WATTO: (Cont'd) You won the small toss, outlander, bou you won't win the race, so...it makes little difference.

ANAKIN and PADME enter the hanger on one of the EOPIES, pulling an engine.
KITSTER, on the other EOPIE, is pulling another engine. With THREEPIO walking alongside, ARTOO trundles behind, pulling the Pod with SHMI sitting on it. WATTO passes ANAKIN as he leaves.

WATTO: (Cont'd) (subtitled) Bonapa keesa pateeso, o wanna meetee chobodd.
(Better stop your friends betting, or I'll end up owning him, too.)

WATTO walks off, laughing.

ANAKIN: What did he mean by that?

QUI-GON: I'll tell you later.

ARTOO beeps at THREEPIO.

THREEPIO: Oh my! Space travel sounds rather perilous.

ARTOO emits a series of beeps.

THREEPIO: I can assure you they will never get me onto one of those dreadful starships!
KITSTER: (to Anakin) This is so wizard! I'm sure you'll do it this time, Annie.
PADME: Do what?
KITSTER: Finish the race, of course!
PADME: You've never won a race?
ANAKIN: Well...not exactly...
PADME: Not even finished?!

ANAKN looks sheepish.

ANAKIN: ...but Kitster's right, I will this time.
QUI-GON: Of course you will.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - DAY

One of Darth Maul's PROBE DROIDS slowly floats down the main street of Tatooine. It looks in shops and studies PEOPLE as it searches for OBI-WAN, QI-GON, or the QUEEN.

EXT. MOS ESPA - DESERT RACE ARENA - DAY

An EXTREME HIGH WIDE ANGLE reveals a vast arena in the Tatooine desert. A large semi-circular amphitheatre that holds at least a hundred thousand people dominates the landscape. Large viewing platforms loom over the racetrack. INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCER'S BOX - DAY (FX)

A two-headed ANNOUNCER describes the scene.

FODE/BEED: -
A: Toogi! Toogie! (Greetings) Toong mee cha kulkah du Boonta magi! tah oos azalus ooval Poddraces. (We have perfect weather today for the Boonta classic. The most hazardous of all Podraces.)
B: That's absolutly right. And a big turnout here, from all corners of the Outer Rim territories. I see the contestants are making their way out onto the starting grid.

EXT. MOS ESPA - DESERT RACE ARENA - DAY

On the left side of the tracks across from the grandstands, a line of Podracers emerges from the large hanger, surrounded by several CREW MEMBERS. Pods are pulled by a wide variety of CREATURES and are led by aliens carrying flags. The PILOTS stand facing the royal box.

FODE/BEED: -
A: La Yma beestoo (Yes, there they are!)
B: I see Ben Quadinaros from the Tund system.
A: ...eh Gasgano doowa newpa Ord Petrovia! (And Gasgano in thenew Ord Pedrovia.)
B: Two time winner, Boles Roor...
A: Poo tula moosta, woe grane champio Sebulba du Pixelito! Splastyleeya bookie ookie!! (On the front line the reigning champion, Sebulba from Pixelito. By far the favorite today.)
B: And a late entry, Anakin Skywalker, a local boy.
A: Wampa peedunkee unko ( I hope he has better luck this time.)
B: I see the flaggers are moving onto the track.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - GRANDSTAND - DAY

Colorful canopies shade some of the SPECTATORS. VENDORS sell barbecued creature parts and colorful drinks.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - ROYAL BOX - DAY (FX)

All the PILOTS bow from the waist as JABBA THE HUTT enters the box and waves to the crowd.

FODE/BEED: -
A: O grandio lust, Jabba Du Hutt, amu intoe tah parena. (His honor, our glorious host, Jabba the Hutt has entered the arena.)

The crowd ROARS. SEVERAL OTHER SLUG-LIKE HUTTS follow, along with humans and aliens. Several SLAVE GIRLS on a chain are led alongside JABBA.

JABBA: (subtitled) Chowbaso! Tam ka chee Boonta rulee ya, kee madda hodrudda du wundee. (Welcome!) Sebulba tuta Pixelito...

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

SEBULBA, who is right next to ANAKIN, stands and waves to his fans. A small pep band plays as his fans wave and cheer.

KITSTER attaches the giant engins to Anakin's Pod with a long cable. SHMI gives ANAKIN a big hug and kiss. She looks him right in the eye.

SHMI: Be safe.
ANAKIN: I will, Mom. I promise.

She leaves as ANAKIN checks the cable hitches.

JABBA: ...Mawhonic tuta Hok, Teemto Pagalies tuta Moonus Mandel, Anakin SKywalker tuta Tatoonine....

The CROWD YELLS. ANAKIN waves to the crowd, as JABBA continues with his introductions. SEBULBA moves over to one of Anakin's engines. KITSTER and JAR JAR unhitch the EOPIES, and KITSTER leads them away. ARTOO beeps that everything is OK. JAR JAR pats ANAKIN on the back.

JAR JAR: Dis berry loony, Annie. May da guds be kind, mesa palo.

PADME comes up and gives ANAKIN a little kiss on the cheeek. SEBULBA bangs on a part protruding from Anakin's engine. He looks around to see if anyone has noticed.

PADME: You carry all our hopes.
ANAKIN: I won't let you down.

PADME moves away as SEBULBA edges his way next to ANAKIN and gives him a sinister grin.

SEBULBA: Bazda wahota, shag. Dobiella Nok. Yoka to Bantha poodoo. 9You won't walk away from this one, slave scum! You're Bantha poodoo.)
ANAKIN: (subtitled) Cha skrundee da pat, sleemo. (Don't count on it, slime-ball.)

ANAKIN looks the evil SEBULBA in the eye with a cold stare. QUI-GON approaches, and SEBULBA backs off toward his racer.

JABBA: (sutitled)...Ka bazza kundee hodrudda! (...Let the challenge begin!)

The CROWD lets out a LOUD CHEER. QUI-GON helps ANAKIN into his Pod. The boy straps himself into the tiny racer.

QUI-GON: Are you all set, Annie? (Anakin nods) Remember, concentrate on the moment. Feel. Don't think. Trust your instincts. (he smiles) May the Force be with you.

QUI-GON steps away as ANAKIN puts on his goggles. The PILOTS flip switches, and powerful energy binders shoot between the engines. ANAKIN flips a switch, and his engine starts. The incredible ROAR of high-powered engines igniting echoes throughout the arena. One driver, ODY MANDRELL, yells at a droid (DUM-4) to get away from the front of his engine. The crowd is tense.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

The giant power-house engines torque as the PILOTS gun them. The PILOTS flip switches, and poerful energy binders shoot between the engines. Aliens carrying large flags move off the track. JAR JAR covers his eyes.

JAR JAR: Mesa no watch. Dissen ganna be messy!
FODE/BEED: -
A: Ya pawa culka doe rundee! (The power couplings are being activated)
B: Hey, it looks like they're clearing the grid.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

SHMI looks nervously to QUI-GON as he enters a veiwing platform. PADME and JAR JAR are already on board. The platform rises like an elevator.

SHMI: Is he nervous?
QUI-GON: He's fine.
PADME: You Jedi are far too reckless. The Queen...
QUI-GON: The Queen trusts my judgment, young handmaiden. You should too.
PADME: You assume too much.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCER'S BOX - DAY (FX)

FODE/BEED: -
B: Start your engines.

The earth-pounding ROAR of the engines revving is deafening.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - ROYAL BOX - DAY (FX)

Jabba bites off the head of a frog and spits it at a gong, signaling the start of the race.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

On a bridge over the track, a great green light at the center flashes. The Podracers shoot forward with a high-pitches scream. ANAKIN'S engine floods and coughs - then dies. All the other Podracers except one swerve around him and dissapear down the track. The slave boy struggles to get his racer started. The two-headed announcer reports.

FODE/BEED: - (O.S.)
A: An dare ovv! (And they're off!)
B: Oh...wait. Little Skywalker has stalled.

PADME and JAR JAR are very dissapointed with ANAKIN. QUI-GON puts his arm around a very worried SHMI to comfort her. Finally, Anakin's engines ignite. He zooms away after the receeding pack of competitors, leaving one quadra-Pod racer still trying to get started. The two-headed ANNOUNCER describes the race as it progresses.

FODE/BEED: - (O.S.)
B: And there goes Skywalker... He'll be hard pressed to catch up with the leaders today.

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

The Podracers fly across the desert. SEBULBA is running neck and neck with MAWHONIC. They round the first turn in the track, side by side. SEBULBA drives his Pod into his rival, forcing him into the wall of a large rock formation. MAWHONIC crashes in a spectacular display of fire and smoke.
ANAKIN is much faster than the back-end stragglers and passes them easily.
One of the drivers, GASGANO, won't let ANAKIN by. ANAKIN tries to pass him on one side and is cut off. He then tries to pass him on the other side ansd is cut off. As they come up on a cliff drop-off, ANAKIN backs off, then guns it as GASGANO goes over the cliff. ANAJIN accelerates so fast that he sails right over the top of GASGANO and speeds away.
Four TUSKEN RAIDERS perched above the race course fire their rifles at the Pods racing in the canyon below them. One shot ricochets off the back of Anakin's Pod.

FODE/BEED: -
B: Looks like a few Tusken Riaders have campe out on the canyon dune turn.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

JABBA THE HUTT and the crowd watch the progress of the race on small, hand-held view screens. JAR JAR is looking over the shoulder of a strange alien named FANTA.

JAR JAR: Where's Skywalker?

FANTA moves the view screen out of Jar Jar's view. PADME, SHMI, and QUI-GON watch another screen and look worried.
ARTOO, down in the pits with KITSTER, lets out a worried sigh. The driver of the quadra-Pod looks worried.

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

ANAKIN is powering around corners and over hills and cliffs, passing other racers right and left. SEBULBA is in the lead. He is being challenged by another racer, XELBREE.
SEBULBA slows a little, and as XELBREE pulls alongside, he opens a side vent on the racer's engine and the exhaust starts to cut through the alien's engine.
The blast cuts along the engine until finally it EXPLODES. SEBULBA deftly veers away.
ANAKIN works his way through a dense mass of racers as they zoom over a dune sea, kicking up dust. His Pod shakes violently as he goes over a jump.
One of the Podracers, ODY, catches one of his engines in the sand, and the whole thing EXPLODES.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

QUI-GON sits quietly, meditating. PADME and SHMI search the landscape for any sign of the racers. JAR JAR is still annoying FANTA for information.
The crowd SCREAMS. WATTO is laughing with his friends, confident in Anakin's defeat.
The quadra-Pod engines start just as the racers come around the corner. The DRIVER, BEN QUADINAROS, puts it in gear, and the four engines go off in all directions, EXPLODING in a spectacular display. The Pod drops to the ground as SEBULBA enters the arena, closely followed by all the OTHER RACERS.
KITSTER strains to see as ARTOO beeps excitedly. The announcer continues.

FODE/BEED: - 
B ; There goes Quadinaros' power couplings.
A: Sebulba! Ka pa me cheespa wata! (Here comes Sebulba in record time.)

QUI-GON, PADME, SHMI, and JAR JAR yell for joy as ANAKIN passes. JAR JAR is very nervous and pounds on the back of his alien neighbor, FANTA. JAR JAR :
What gooie-on?
FANTA: Bug off.

Lap two. SEBULBA and the pack race past the main arena. The crowd stands and YELLS as the Podracers scream off into the distance. QUI-GON and PADME look worried.

JAR JAR: He musta crash-ud.
PADME: Here he comes!

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - PIT AREA - DAY (FX)

ARTOO lets out an excited whistle, as KITSTER yells.

THREEPIO: He has to complete two more circuits? Oh dear!

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

Sure enough, coming around the bend is ANAKIN, quickly gaining on the pack.
The two-headed announcer describes the action. The crowd goes wild.

FODE/BEED: - (O.S.)
B: It looks like Skywalker is moving up through the field. He's in...
A: Steeth pa nagoola! (Sixth place, not bad.)

ANAKIN continues to gain on the pack. Tension for SHMI and PADME is unbearable.
ODY stops in the pits. Droids work on his engines. DUM-4 stands in front of the engine and is sucked in, causing the engine to die. DUM-4 is spit out the back of the engine, very bent up. The engine lets out one final wheeze, then EXPLODES in a puff of smoke.

FODE/BEED: - (O.S.)
A: Ody Mandrell! Coona wa wunda dunko! (Ody Mandrell into the pits for some attention.)
ODY: Droids!

TERTER is getting close to SEBULBA, who purposely breaks a small part off his Pod, sending it into Terter's engine, causing him to veer into ANAKIN, and unhooks one of the main straps on Anakin's engines that links the Pod to his engines.
ANAKIN struggles to keep control of the little Pod. It whips about wildly.
As the Pod swings near the broken engine strap, ANAKIN grabs for it.
Finally, he catches the strap and manages to unhook it to the Pod.
SEBULBA cuts the engine of OBITOKI with his side exhaust, and the racer crashes with a cloud of dust. A THIRD RACER, HABBA, flie into the cloud of dust and crashes into OBITOKI. ANAKIN rounds a corner and heads into the cloud of smoke. He hits a part of one of the engines but regains control.

FODE/BEED: - (O.S.)
B :At the start of the third and final lap, Sebulba is in the lead, closely followed by Skywalker...

ANAKIN finally catches up with SEBULBA, and runs neck and neck over the rough terrain. JAR JAR, QUI-GON, SHMI, and PADME all SCREAM s ANAKIN comes through the arena. The lights in the tower indicate that this is the third and last lap. WATTO begins to worry.
SEBULBA uses his side exhaust port to try to cut through Anakin's engines.
ANAKIN manages to avoid having his engine disabled but is forced off course.

FODE/BEED: - (O.S.)
B: Skywalker is forced onto the service ramp!
A: Oh noah!

On a tight corner, ANAKIN dives to the inside and takes the lead.

FODE BEED: - (O.S.)
B: Amazing... a controlled thrust and he's back on course! What a move!

SEBULBA is furious. He stay's right on Anakin's tail, crowding him and pushing him through the turns.
SEBULBA pushes ANAKIN harder, and the young boy has a difficult time keeping control. One of the parts on Anakin's engines begins to shake loose. ANAKIN sees it and switches over to an auxiliary system. While he is trying to accomplish this maneuver, SEBULBA races past him.
ANAKIN tries to get around SEBULBA, to no avail. Every move ANAKIN makes, SEBULBA is able to block.
Finally, ANAKIN fakes a move into the inside as he usually does, then tries to go around SEBULBA on the outside. They race sid by side down the final stretch of the track.

FODE/BEED: - (O.S.)
B: He's catching Sebulba.
A: Inkabunga. (Incredible!)

SEBULBA veers toward ANAKIN and bangs into his Pod. He crashes into ANAKIN over and over. The young boy struggles to maintain control as the steering rods on the two Pods become hooked together. SEBULBA laughs at ANAKIN.

FODE/BEED: - (O.S.)
B: That little human being is out of his mind.
A: Punda tah punda! (They're neck and neck!)
B: They're side by side!
A: Bongo du bongu! (Shoulder to shoulder!)

As they head for the final stretch, ANAKIN fights to unlock the steering rods by trying to pull away from SEBULBA. The strain on the steering rod is tremendous. Suddenly, ANAKIN's steering arm breaks, and his Pos starts spinning.
The release of tension sends SEBULBA into an ancient statue. One engine EXPLODES, then the other. SEBULBA skids through the fire-balls, blackened, but unhurt. He slides to a smoking stop, gets out of his racer, and throws what's left of a shifter arm on the ground. Suddenly he realizes his pants are on fire, and he struggles to put them out. ANAKIN flies through the EXPLOSION as the crowd stands, CHERRING. PADME and JAR JAR jump up and down with excitment, PADME screaming for joy. ARTOO and KITSTER whistle hysterically. QUI-GON and SHMI smile. ANAKIN races over the finish line, the winner.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCERS BOX - DAY (FX)

The two-headed announcer excitedly calls the finish.

FODE/BEED: -
B: It's Skywalker! The crowd are going nuts! Oh Ah Oh Ah (rock head in tandem with partner)

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - DAY

As ANAKIN stops the Podracer, KISTER turns up, and they embrace. Hundreds of SPECTATORS join them and put ANAKIN on their shoulders, marching off, CHEERING AND CHANTING. Darth Maul's PROBE DROIDS move through the crowd.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - PRIVATE BOX - DAY

Several ALIENS leave Watto's box, laughing and counting their money. WATTO sees QUI-GON standing in the doorway.

WATTO: You! You swindled me! You knew the boy was going to win! Somehow you knew it! I lost everything.

WATTO flies up to QUI-GON and puts his face right up against QUI-GON's.
QUI-GON simply smiles.

QUI-GON: Whenever you gamble, my freind, eventually you'll lose. Bring the parts to the main hanger. I'll come by your shop later so you can release the boy.
WATTO: You can't have him! It wasn't a fair bet!
QUI-GON: Would you like to discuss it with the Hutts...I'm sure they can settle this.
WATTO: No, no! I want no more of your tricks! Take him!

The SITH PROBE DROID watches with great interest.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

The Main Hanger is almost deserted as RACERS depart.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

JAR JAR gives ANAKIN a great hug, then PADME gives him a hug, then SHMI.

ANAKIN: Ah, gee...enough of this...
SHMI: It's so wonderful, Annie. You have brought hope to those who have none. I'm so very proud of you...
PADME: We owe you everything.
ANAKIN: Just feeling this good was worth it.

In the background, QUI-GON has harnessed the EOPIES to containers full of parts.

QUI-GON: Padme. Jar Jar, let's go, we've got to get these parts back to the ship.

The GROUP walks over to QUI-GON and the EOPIES.
PADME climbs on behind QUI-GON. JAR JAR swings up onto the second EOPIE, only to slwly slide off the other side. ARTOO whistles. ANAKIN and SHMI wave as they ride off.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) I'll return the eopies by midday.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

ARTOO cruises ahead of QUI-GON and PADME, who are riding one of the EOPIES;
JAR JAR ridses the other. They stop in front of the sleek Naboo spacecraft.
OBI-WAN comes out of the ship and joins them.

QUI-GON: Start getting this hyperdrive generator installed. I'm going back...some unfinished business. I won't be long.
OBI-WAN: Why do I sense we've picked up another pathetic life form...?
QUI-GON: It's the boy who's responsible for getting those parts.

On a hill far overlooking the Naboo spacecraft, the SITH PROBE DROID turns and speeds away.

EXT. TATOOINE - STREET - SLAVE QUARTERS - DAY

ANAKIN and A GREEDO are rolling around on the floor, fighting. About A DOZEN OR SO KIDS are standing around them, yelling. Suddenly, a long shadow is cast over the TWO BOYS; they stop fighting and look up. QUI-GOMN is towering above them. KITSTER is with them.

QUI-GON: What's this?
ANAKIN: He said I cheated.
QUI-GON: Did you?
ANAKIN: No!
QUI-GON: Do you still think he cheated?
GREEDO: Yes.
QUI-GON: Well, Annie. You know the truth... You will have to tolerate his opinion, fighting won't change it.

QUI-GON moves off down the street. Anakin follows. The GREEDO wanders over to WALD who has been watching the goings-on.

WALD: Keep this up, Greedo, and you're gonna come to a bad end.

Farther down the street QUI-GON and ANAKIN head toward Anakin's hovel.
QUI-GON takes a handful of credits from beneath his poncho and hands them to the boy.

QUI-GON: These are yours. We sold the Pod.
ANAKIN: (suddenly beaming) Yes!

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

SHMI is cleaning up as ANAKIN bursts through the door, followed by QUI-GON.

ANAKIN: Mom, he sold the Pod. Look at all the money we have!

ANAKIN pulls a bag of coins out of his pocket.

SHMI: Oh, my goodness, That's wonderful.
QUI-GON: And Anakin has been freed.
ANAKIN: What?!?
QUI-GON: You're no longer a slave.

ANAKIN jumps for joy! SHMI is stunned.

ANAKIN: Did you hear that, Mom? (to Qui-Gon) Was that part of the prize, or what?
QUI-GON: Let's just say Watto has learned an important lesson about gambling.
SHMI: Now you can make your dreams come true, Annie. You're free! (turns to Qui-Gon) Will you take him with you? Is he to become a Jedi?
QUI-GON: Our meeting was not a coincidence. Nothing happens by accident.
You are strong with the Force, but you may not be accepted by the Coucil.
ANAKIN: A Jedi! Mighty blasters, you mean I get to go with you in your starship and everything?!

QUI-GON kneels down to the boy.

QUI-GON: Anakin, training to be a Jedi will not be a easy challenge. And if you succeed, it will be a hard life.
ANAKIN: But it's what I want. What I've always dreamed about. Can I go, Mom?!
QUI-GON: This path has been placed for you, Annie; the choice to take it is yours alone.

ANAKIN thinks, looks to his mother, then to QUI-GON.

ANAKIN: I want to go.
QUI-GON: Then, pack your things. We haven't much time.
ANAKIN: Yipee!!

ANAKIN hugs his mom and starts for the other room, then stops. SHMI and QUI-GON give each other a knowing look. ANAKIN has realized something.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) What about Mom? Is she free too? You're coming, aren't you, Mom QUI-GON: I tried to free your mother, Annie, but Watto wouldn't have it.
ANAKIN: But the money from selling...
QUI-GON: It's not nearly enough.

SHMI comes over to her son and sits next to him. Taking both of his hands in hers, she draws him close.

SHMI: Son, my place is here. My future is here. It is time for you to let go...to let go of me. I cannot go with you.
ANAKIN: I want to stay with you. I don't want things to change.
SHMI: You can't stop change any more than you can stop the suns from setting. Listen to your feelings; Annie, you know what's right.

ANAKIN takes a deep breath, drops his head. QUI-GON and SHMI exchange a look of concern. When ANAKIN raises up, there are tears in his eyes.

ANAKIN: I'm going to miss you so much, Mom...
SHMI: I love you, Annie...now hurry.

ANAKIN and SHMI hug. ANAKIN runs into the other room.

SHMI: (Cont'd) Thank you.
QUI-GON: I will watch after him. You have my word. Will you be all right?
SHMI: He was in my life for such a short time.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - SECOND ROOM - DAY

ANAKIN has thrown the last of his things in a small backpack. As he leaves, he stops and pushes the button that wakes his droid up. THREEPIO stares at him blankly.

ANAKIN: Well, Threepio, I'm free...and I'm going away...in a starship...
THREEPIO: Master, Annie, you are my maker, and I wish you well. Although I'd like it better if I were a little less naked.
ANAKIN: I'm sorry I wasn't able to finish you, Threepio...give you coverings and all... I'm going to miss working on you. You've been a great pal. I'll make sure Mom doesn't sell you or anything. Bye.

THREEPIO stares at ANAKIN as he rushes out of the room.

THREEPIO: Sell me?!?

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - SLAVE QUARTERS - DAY

KITSTER runs up to ANAKIN as he and QUI-GON exit Anakin's hovel. SHMI stands in the doorway. ANAKIN pulls a handful of coins out of his pocket and gives them to KITSTER.

KITSTER: There are so many of us who want you to stay, Annie... You're a hero.
ANAKIN: I... (looks to SHMI) I... have to go.

QUI-GON has moved a short way down the street.

KITSTER: Well.
ANAKIN: Well.
KITSTER: Thank's for every moment you've been here. You're my best friend.
ANAKIN: I won't forget.

ANAKIN hugs KITSTER and runs toward QUI-GON, then stops to look back at his mother standing in the doorway. He turns back to QUI-GON, then turns and runs back to his mother.

ANAKIN: (starting to cry) I can't do it, Mom. I just can't.

SHMI hugs ANAKIN. QUI-GON watches from the distance. She kneels down and looks him in the face.

SHMI: Annie, remember when you climbed the great dune in order to chase the Banthas away so they wouldn't be shot... Remember how you collapses several times, exhausted thinking you couldn't do it?

ANAKIN shakes his head.

SHMI: (Cont'd) This is one of those times when you have to do something you don't think you can do. I know how strong you are, Annie. I know you can do this...
ANAKIN: Will I ever see you again?
SHMI: What does your heart tell you?
ANAKIN: I hope so...yes...I guess.
SHMI: Then we will see each other again.
ANAKIN: I.. will become a Jedi and I will come back and free you, Mom...I promise.
SHMI: No matter where you are, my love will be with you. Now be brave, and don't look back... don't look back.
ANAKIN: I love you so much.

SHMI hugs ANAKIN, then turns him around so he is facing QUI-GON, and off he marches, like the brave little trooper that he is. He marches right past QUI-GON, starring right ahead, tears in his eyes, determined not to look back.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT MESA - DAY

The PROBE DROID beeps and whistles to DARTH MAUL. The SITH LORD gets on a speeder bike and follows the PROBE DROID into Mos Espa.

EXT MOS ESPA - STREET - FRUIT STAND - DAY

ANAKIN and QUI-GON exit WATTO'S and stop before JIRA'S fruit stand. ANAKIN hands JIRA some coins.

ANAKIN: I've been freed, and I'm going away. Buy yourself a cooling unit with this... Otherwise I'll worry about you.

JIRA is astonished. She stares, not knowing what to say.

JIRA: Can I give you a hug ANAKIN: Sure.

She gives him a hug.

JIRA: I'll miss you, Annie.. there isn't a kinder boy in the galaxy. You be careful...

ANAKIN runs to join QUI-GON, who has already started down the street. As they walk along together, QUI-GON notices something out of the corner of his eye.
Suddenly, without breaking his stride, he ignites his laser sword, swing around, and lunges forward and cuts a lurking PROBE DROID in half. QUI-GON inspects the sparking and fizzing DROID.

ANAKIN: What is it?
QUI-GON: Probe droid. Very unusual... not like anything I've seen before.
Come on.

QUI-GON and ANAKIN start running.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

QUI-GON and ANAKIN run toward the Naboo spacecraft. ANAKIN is having a hard time keeping up.

ANAKIN: Master Qui-Gon,sir, wait!

QUI-GON turns to answer and sees a DARK-CLOAKED FIGURE bearing down on a speeder bike.

QUI-GON: Anakin, drop!

ANAKIN drops to the ground just as DARTH MAUL sweeps over him. DARTH MAUL jumps off his speeder bike, and before he has hit the ground, the Sith Lord has swund a death blow with his laser sword that is barely blocked by QUI-GON.
ANAKIN picks himself up. The two galactic warriors, Sith and Jedi, are bashing each other with incredible blows. They move in a continual cloudof dust, smashing everything around them. This is a fierce fight. ANAKIN gets up, bewildered by the confrontation.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) Annie, get to the ship! Take off! Go! Go!

QUI-GON struggles to fend off the relentless onslaught as ANAKIN races to the ship.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - HALLWAY

ANAKIN runs into the main hallway of the spaceship, where PADME and CAPTAIN PANAKA are working.

ANAKIN: Qui-Gon's in trouble. He says to take off...now!!
CAPT. PANAKA: Who are you?
PADME: He's a friend.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

CAPTAIN PANAKA, ANAKIN, and PADME rush into the cockpit where OBI-WAN and RIC OLIE are checking the hyperdrive.

CAPT. PANAKA: Qui-Gon is in trouble, he says to take off!
PILOT: I don't see anything.
OBI-WAN: Over there! Fly low!

In the distance is a small cloud of dust.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL continue theirsword battle. Leaping over one another in an incredible display of acrobatics, the two warrios hear the ship fly over them a few feet off the ground. QUI-GON almost dissapears for a moment.
Before DARTH MAUL knows what's happening, QUI-GON is on the spacecrat's ramp.

EXT. TATOOINE - NABOO SPACECRAFT RAMP - DAY

The SITH LORD immediately jumps onto the ramp after QUI-GON, but barely makes it. His heels hang over the edge of a forty-foot drop. QUI-GON swings his laser sword with all his might and knocks DARTH AMUL off the ramp and onto the desert floor. The ramp closes, and the Naboo craft rockets away, leaving the Sith Lord standing alone.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The sleek spacecraft rockets away from the planet Tatooine.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - HALLWAY

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN rush into the hallway to find QUI-GON collapsed on the floor opposite the entry. ARTOO is looking over him. The JEDI is breathing hard, wet with sweat and covered in dirt.

ANAKIN: Are you all right?
QUI-GON: I think so... that was a surpirse I wont soon forget.
OBI-WAN: What was it?
QUI-GON: I don't know... but he was well trained in the Jedi arts. My guess is he was after the Queen...
ANAKIN: Do you think he'll follow us?
QUI-GON: We'll be safe enough once we're in hyperspace, but I have no doubt he knows our destination.
ANAKIN: What are we going to do about it?

OBI-WAN gives ANAKIN a "who are you?" look. ANAKIN returns an innocent stare.

QUI-GON: We will be patient. Anakin Skywalker, meet Obi-Wan Kenobi.
ANAKIN: Pleased to meet you. Wow! You're a Jedi too?

OBI-WAN gives the boy a skeptical look.

INT. COCKPIT - SPACE

RIC OLIE pulls back on the hyperdrive. OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and ANAKIN watch.

QUI-GON: Let's hope this hyperdrive works and Watto didn't get the last laugh.

The stars streak outside the cockpit window.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The ship streaks into hyperspace.

EXT. THEED - STREET - NIGHT (FX)

SEVERAL FEDERATION DROIDS patrol a deserted city street. The Palace can be seen in the distance.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - THEED - NIGHT

NUTE sits in a strange, mechanical walking chair, which approaches SIO BIBBLE and SEVERAL OTHER NABOO OFFICIALS. RUNE follows a few paces behind.
DROID GUARDS surround SIO BIBBLE and THE OTHERS as FOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS watch.

NUTE: When are you going to give up this pointless strike? Your Queen is lost, your people are starving, and you, Governor, are going to die, much sooner than your people, I'm afraid. Take him away!
BIBBLE: This invasion will gain you nothing. We're a democracy. The people have decided... They will not live under your tyranny.

BIBBLE is taken away as OOM-9 approaches NUTE.

OOM-9: My troops are in position to begin searching the swamps for these rumored underwater villages... they will not stay hidden for long.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

The ship is asleep. The lights are dim as PADME walks into the main room.
She goes to a monitor and watches the BIBBLE plea recording. JAR JAR is stretched out on the floor, snoring. ARTOO is to one side, cooing as he rests.
PADME appears tired. She senses someone watching her and turns around with a start. She sees ANAKIN sitting in the corner, shivering and looking verydejected. She goes over to him. He looks up at her with tears in his eyes. He is holding his arms to keep himself warm.

PADME: Are you all right?
ANAKIN: It's very cold.

PADME gives him her over-jacket.

PADME: You're from a warm planet, Annie. Too warm for my taste. Space is cold.
ANAKIN: You seem sad.
PADME: The Queen is...worried. Her people are suffering...dying. She must convince the Senate to intervene, or...I'm not sure what will happen.
ANAKIN: I'm...I'm not sure what's going to happen to me. I dunno if I'll ever see you again.. (he pulls something from his pocket) I made this for you. Sou you'd remember me. I carved it out of a japor snippet... It will bring you good fortune.

ANAKIN hands a wooden pendant to PADME. She inspects it, then puts it around her neck.

PADME: It's beautiful, but I don't need this to remember you. Many things will change when we reach the capital, Annie. My caring for you will always remain.
ANAKIN: I care for you too. Only I...miss...

ANAKIN is disturbed about something. Tears are in his eyes.

PADME: ...You miss your mother.

ANAKIN looks at her, unable to speak. She hugs him.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET CORUSCANT (FX)

MOVE with the ship as it heads toward Coruscant.

INT. CORUSCANT - CITYSCAPE - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The spacecraft dlies over the endlesscityscape of Coruscant, the capital of the galaxy.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

ANAKIN looks out the cockpit window in awe.

RIC OLIE: Coruscant...the capital of the Republic...the entire planet is one big city.
ANAKIN: Wow! It's so huge!

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The ship flies through the cityscape of Coruscant.

EXT. CORUSCANT - SENATE LANDING PLATFORM - DAY

Supreme Chancellor VALORUM, SEVERAL GUARDS, and SENATOR PALPATINE stand on a landing platform.
The sleek Naboo spacecraft lands on the platform high above the street level of the galactic capital. The ramp lowers. OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, JAR JAR and ANAKIN descend the ramp first and bow before PALPATINE and VALORUM.
CAPTAIN PANAKA, TWO GUARDS, QUEEN AMIDALA, then PADME, RABE, EIRTAE, and MORE GUARDS descend the ramp. QUEEN AMIDALA stops before the group.
ANAKIN and JAR JAR stand to one side, looking at the huge city. PADME smiles at ANAKIN. PALPATINE bows before the Queen.

PALPATINE: It is a great gift to see you alive, Your Majesty. May I present Supreme Chancellor Valorum.
VALORUM: Welcome, Your Highness. It is an honor to finally meet you in person. I must relay to you how distressed everyone is over the currant situation. I've called for a special session of the Senate to hear your position.
AMIDALA: I am grateful for your concern, Chancellor.

PALPATINE starts to lead QUEEN AMIDALA and her RETINUE off the platform toward a waiting air taxi.

PALPATINE: There is a question of precedure, but I feel confident we can overcome it...

JAR JAR and ANAKIN start to follow, then stop, noticing that OBI-WAN and QUI-GON are staying with the SUPREME CHANCELLOR. QUEEN AMIDALA waves to the duo to follow her. ANAKIN looks back to QUI-GON, and he nods to go ahead.
ANAKIN and JAR JAR join the QUEEN, PALPATINE, PADME, RABE and EIRTAE in the taxi. PALPATINE gives the Gungan and the boy in the back of the taxi a skeptical look. JAR JAR leans over to ANAKIN.

JAR JAR: Da Queens- a bein grossly nice, mesa tinks. (he looks around)
Pitty hot!

VALORUM and the JEDI watch the taxi move off into the city.

QUI-GON: I must speak with the Jei Council immediately, Your Honor. The situation has become more complicated.

INT. PALPATINE'S QUARTERS - ANTEROOM - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA is sitting listening to PALPATINE. EIRTAE and RABE stand behind the QUEEN; PADME is nowhere to be sen. ANAKIN and JAR JAR are waiting in an adjoining room. They can see the Queen but cannot hear what is being said.

JAR JAR: Dissen all pitty odd to my.
ANAKIN: Don't look at me. I don't know what's going on.

CAPTAIN PANAKA enters, then goes into the room with QUEEN AMIDALA.

INT. PALPATINE'S QUARTERS - LIVING AREA - DAY

PALPATINE is pacing as CAPTAIN PANAKA enters. EIRTAE and RABE stand to one side.

PALPATINE: ...the Republic is not what it once was. The Senate is full of greedy, squabbling delegates who are only looking out for themselves and their home sytems. There is no interest in the common good...no civility, only politics...its disgusting. I must be frank, Your Majesty, there is little chance the Senate will act on the invasion.
AMIDALA: Chancellor Valorum seems to think there is hope.
PALPATINE: If I may say so, Your Majesty, the Chancellor has little real power...he is mired down by baseless accusations of corruption. A manufactured scandal surrounds him. The bureaucrats are in charge now.
AMIDALA: What options do we have?
PALPATINE: Our best choice would be to push for the election of a stronger Supreme Chancellor. One who will take control of the bureaucrats, enforces the laws, and give us justice. You could call for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum.
AMIDALA: He has been our strongest supporter. Is there any other way?
PALPATINE: Our only other choice would to be to submit a plea to the courts...
AMIDALA: There's no time for that. The courts take even longer to decide things than the Senate. Our people are dying, Senator...more and more each day. We must do something quickly to stop the Federation.
PALPATINE: To be realistic, Your Highness, I'd say we're going to have to accept Federation control for the time being.
AMIDALA: There is something I cannot do.

EXT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - DAY (FX)

A unique building with it tall spires stands out against the Coruscant skyline. A small transport passes by the vast temple.

INT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - DAY

QUI-GON stands in a tall stately room. Twelve JEDI sit in a semi-circle.
OBI-WAN stands behind QUI-GON in the center of the room.
The Senior Jedi is MACE WINDU. To his left is an alien Jedi named KI-ADI-MUNDI, and to his right, the Jedi Master, YODA.

QUI-GON: ...my only conclusion can be that it was a Sith Lord.
MACE WINDU: A Sith Lord?!?
KI-ADI: Impossible! The Sith have been extinct for a millenium.
YODA: The very Republic is threatened, if involved the Sith are.
MACE WINDU: I do not believe they could have returned without us knowing.
YODA: Hard to see, the dark side is. Discover who this assassin is, we must.
KI-ADI: I sense he will reveal himself again.
MACE WINDU: This attack was with purpose, that is clear, and I agree the Queen is the target.
YODA: With this Naboo queen you must stay, Qui-Gon. Protect her.
MACE WINDU: We will use all our resources here to unravel this mystery and discover the identity of your attacker... May the Force be with you.
YODA: May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN turns to leave, but QUI-GON continues to face the Council.

YODA: (Cont'd) Master Qui-Gon more to say have you?
QUI-GON: With your permission, my Master. I have encountered a vergence in the Force.
YODA: A vergence, you say?
MACE WINDU: Located around a person?
QUI-GON: A boy... his cells have the highest concentration of midi-chlorians I have seen in a life form. It is possible he was conceived by the midi-chlorians.
MACE WINDU: You're referring to the prophesy of the one who will bring balance to the Force...you believe it's this boy??
QUI-GON: I don't pressume...
YODA: But you do! Rrevealed your opinion is.
QUI-GON: I request the boy be tested.

The JEDI all look to one another. They nod and turn back to OBI-WAN and QUI-GON.

YODA: Trained as a Jedi, you request for him?
QUI-GON: Finding him was the will of the Force...I have no doubt of that.
There is too much happening here...
MACE WINDU: Bring him before us, then.
YODA: Tested he will be.

INT. QUEENS QUARTERS - CORUSCANT - DAY Anakin, tentative, walks down one of the long hallways in Senator Palpatine's quarters. He stops before a dor that is flanked by TWO GUARDS.

GUARD: May I help you, son?
ANAKIN: I'm...I'm looking for the handmaiden, Padme.

The GUARD speaks into his comlink as ANAKIN looks around a bit nervously.

GUARD: The boy is here to see Padme.
RABE: Send him in.

The doors open, and ANAKIN enters the Queen's quarters.
RABE greets ANAKIN as TWO OTHER HANDMAIDENS come and go into the next room.

ANAKIN: I'd like to speak with Padme, if I could.
RABE: I'm sorry, Annie. Padme is not here right now.

The Queen speaks out in the next room.

AMIDALA: (O.S.) Who is it?
RABE: Anakin Skywalker, to see Padme, Your Highness.

The QUEEN moves into the doorway and studies ANAKIN. ANAKIN bows and looks down, then takes a peek at her.

AMIDALA: I've sent Padme on an errand.
ANAKIN: I'm going to the Jedi temple to start my training, I hope.

The QUEEN just stares at him.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) I may not see her again...and... I just wanted to say goodbye.
AMIDALA: We will tell her for you. We're sure her heart goes with you.

ANAKIN bows again.

ANAKIN: Thank you, Your Highness. I'm sorry to have disturbed you.

The QUEEN dissapears behind the doorway, and ANAKIN exits.

EXT. CORUSCANT - GALACTIC SENATE BUILDING - DAY (FX)

A large, distinctive looking domed building stands out amid the cityscape of Coruscant.

INT. MAIN ROTUNDA - GALACTIC SENATE - DAY

The Senate chambers are huge. Thousands of SENATORS and their AIDES sit in the circular assembly area. CHANCELLOR VALORUM sits in an elevated area in the center. Hindreds of AIDES and DROIDS hurry about. SENATOR PALPATINE, QUEEN AMIDALA, EIRTA, RABE, and CAPTAIN PANAKA sit in the Naboo congressional box, which is actually a floating platform. PALPATINE leans over to the QUEEN.

PALPATINE: If the Federation moves to defer the motion...Your Majesty, Ibeg of you to ask for a resolution to end this congressional session.
AMIDALA: I wish I had your confidence in this, Senator.
PALPATINE: You must force a new election for Supreme Chancellor...I promise you there are many who will support us...it is our best chance...
Your Majesty, our only, chance.
AMIDALA: You truely believe Chancellor Valorum will not bring our motion to a vote?
PALAPATINE: He is distracted...he is afraid. He will be of no help.
VALORUM: The Chair recognizes the Senator from the sovereign system of Naboo.

The Naboo congressional box floats into the center.

PALPATINE: Supreme Chancellor, delegates of the Senate. A tragedy has occured on our peaceful system of Naboo. We have become caugt in a dispute you're all well aware of, which began right here with the taxation of trade routes, and has now engulfed our entire planet in the oppresion of the Trade Federation.

A second box rushes into the center of the Senate. It is filled with Federation trade barons led by LOTT DOD, the Senator for the Federation.

LOTT DOD: This is outrageous! I object to the Senator's statements!
VALORUM: The Chair does not recognize the Senator from the Trade Federation at this time. Please return to your station.

LOTT DOD reluctantly moves back to his place.

PALPATINE: To state our allegations, I present Queen Amidala, the recently elected ruler of Naboo, to speak on our behalf.

QUEEN AMIDALA stands and addresses the assembly. There is some applause.

AMIDALA: Honorable representatives of the Republic, distinguished delegates, and Your Honor Supreme Chancellor Valorum, I come to you under the gravest of circumstances. The Naboo system has been invaded by force.
Invaded...against all the laws of the Republic by the Droid Armies of the Trade...
LOTT DOD: I object! There is no proof. This is incredible. We recommend a commision be sent to Naboo to assertain the truth.
VALORUM: Overruled.
LOTT DOD: Your Honor, you cannot allow us to be condemned without reasonable observation. It's against all the rules of procedure.

A third box representing Malastare moves into the center of the room. AKS MOE, the Ambassador, addresses the convention.

AKS MOE: The Congress of Malastare concurs with the honorable delegate from the Trade Federation. A commision must be appointed...that is the law.
VALORUM: The point...

VALORUM confers with several of his AIDES and VICE CHAIRMAN MAS AMEDDA.
PALPATINE whispers something to the QUEEN.

PALPATINE: Enter the bureaucrats, the true rulers of the Republic, and on the payroll of the Trade Federation, I might add. This is where Chancellor Valorum's strength will dissapear.
VALORUM: The point is conceded...Section 523A take precedence here. Queen Amidala of the Naboo, will you defer your motion to allow a commission to explore the validity of your accusations?

QUEEN AMIDALA is angry but remains composed.

AMIDALA: (angrily) I will not defer...I have come before you to resolve this attack on our sovereignty now. I was not elected to watch my people suffer and die while you discuss this invasion in a committee. If this body is not capable of action, I suggest new leadership is needed. I move for a
"vote of no confidence"...in Chancellor Valorum's leadership.
VALORUM: What?...No!

This causes a great stir in the assembly. A loud mumur cresendos into a roar of approval and jeers. CHANCELLOR VALORUM is stunned and stands speechless. His Vice Chair, MAS AMEDDA, takes over.

MAS AMEDDA: Order! We shall have order...

Things settledown a little. The Federation box settles next to AMIDALA.
PRINCE BAIL ORGANA moves his box into the arena.

BAIL ORGANA: Alderaan seconds the motion for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum.
MAD AMEDDA: The motion has been seconded by Bail Organa of Alderaan.

MAS AMEDDA turns to the confused VALORUM, and whispers something to him.

BAIL ORGANA: There must be no delays. The motion is on the floor and must be voted upon in this session.
LOTT DOD: The Trade Federation moves the motion be sent to the procedures committee for study.

The assembly begins to chant. VALORUM talks to MAS AMEDDA.

ASSEMBLY: Vote now! Vote now! Vote now!

PALPATINE stands next to AMIDALA.

PALPATINE: You see, Your Majaesty, the tide is with us...Valorum will be voted out, I assure you, and they will elect in a new Chancellor, a strong Chancellor, one who will not let our tragedy continue...
MAS AMEDDA: Thew Supreme Chancellor requests a recess. Tomorrow we will begin the vote.

The Federation delegation is furious. VALORUM turns to PALPATINE.

VALORUM: Palpatine, I thought you were my ally...my friend. You have betrayed me! How could you do this?

EXT. PALACE OF THE JEDI - BALCONY - SUNSET

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand outside the palace on a balcony.

OBI-WAN: The boy will not pass the Council's tests, Master, and you know it. He is far too old.
QUI-GON: Anakin will become A Jedi...I promise you.
OBI-WAN: Don't defy the Council, Master..not again.
QUI-GON: I will do what I must.
OBI-WAN: Master, you could be sitting on the Council by now if you would just follow the code. They will not go along with you this time.
QUI-GON: You still have much to learn, my young apprentice.

INT. PALACE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - SUNSET

ANAKIN stands before the TWELVE JEDI. MACE WINDU holds a small hand-held viewing screen. In rapid succession, images flash across the screen.

ANAKIN: A ship...a cup...a speeder.

MACE WINDU turns the viewing screen off and nods toward YODA.

YODA: Good, good, young one. How feel you?
ANAKIN: Cold, sir.
YODA: Afraid are you?
ANAKIN: No, sir.
MACE WINDU: Afraid to give up your life?
ANAKIN: I don't think so.

ANAKIN hesitates for a moment.

YODA: See through you, we can.
MACE WINDU: Be mindful of your feelings...
KI-ADI: YOur thoughts dwell on your mother.
ANAKIN: I miss her.
YODA: Afraid to lose her..I think.
ANAKIN: (a little angry) What's that got to do with anything?
YODA: Eveything. Fear is the path to the dark side... fear leads to anger... anger leads to hate.. hate leads to suffering.
ANAKIN: (angrily) I am not afraid!
YODA: A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. I sense much fear in you.
ANAKIN: (quietly) I am not afraid.
YODA: Then continue, we will.

INT. PALPATINES QUARTERS - SUNSET

QUEEN AMIDALA is standing, staring out the window, with JAR JAR. The lights of the city shimmer before them. EIRTAE and SABE stand near the door. JAR JAR turns to face the QUEEN and sees her sadness.

JAR JAR: Mesa wonder why da guds invent pain?
AMIDALA: To motivate us, I imagine...
JAR JAR: Yousa tinken yousa people ganna die?
AMIDALA: I don't know.
JAR JAR: Gungans ganna get pasted too, eh?
AMIDALA: I hope not.
JAR JAR: Gungans do die'n without a fight.... wesa warriors. Wesa gotta grand army. Dat why you no liken us, metinks.

PALPATINE and CAPTAIN PANAKA rush into the rom and bow before the QUEEN.

CAPT. PANAKA: Your Highness, Senator Palpatine has been nominated to succeed Valorum as Supreme Chancellor.
PALPATINE: A surprise, to be sure, but a welcome one. I promise, Your Majesty, if I am elected, I will bring democracy back to the Republic. I will put an end to corruption. The Trade Fedreation will lose its influence over the bureaucrats, and our people will be freed.
AMIDALA: Who else can be nominated?
CAPT. PANAKA: Bail Antilles of Alderaan and Ainlee Teem of Malastare.
PALPATINE: I feel confident...our "situation" will create a strong sympaphy vote for us... I will be Chancellor, I promise you.
AMIDALA: I fear by the time you have control of the bureaucrats, Senator, there will be nothing left of our cities, our people, our way of life...
PALPATINE: I understand your concern, Your Majesty; unfortunately, the Federation has possession of our planet. The law is in their favor.
AMIDALA: With the Senate in transition, there is nothing more I can do here...Senator, this is your arena. I feel I must return to mine. I have decided to go back to Naboo. My place is with my people.
PALPATINE: Go back!! But, Your Majesty, be realistic! You would be in danger. They will force you to sign the treaty.
AMIDALA: I will sign no treaty, Senator. My fate will be no different from that of our people. Captain!
CAPT. PANAKA: Yes, Your Highness?
AMIDALA: Ready my ship!
CAPT. PANAKA: Please, Your Majesty, stay here...where it's safe.
AMIDALA: No place is safe, if the Senate doesn't condemn this invasion. It is clear to me now that the Republic no longer functions as a democracy. If you win the election, Senator, I know you will do everything possible to stop the Federation. I pray you will bring sanity and compassion back to the Senate.

AMIDALA and her RETINUE exit the room. PALPATINE has a self-satisfied smile on his face.

INT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - TWILIGHT

ANAKIN, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON stand before the TWELVE MEMBERS OF THE JEDI COUNCIL.

YODA: ...Correct you were, Qui-Gon.
MACE WINDU: His cells contain a high concentration of midi-chlorians.
KI-ADI: The Force is strong with him.
QUI-GON: He's to be trained, then.

The COUNCIL MEMBERS look to one another.

MACE WINDU: No. He will not be trained.

ANAKIN is crestfallen; tears begin to form in his eyes.

QUI-GON: No??!!

OBI-WAN smiles.

MACE WINDU: He is too old. There is already too much anger in him.
QUI-GON: He is the chosen one...you must see it.
YODA: Clouded, this boy's future is. Masked by his youth.
QUI-GON: I will trin him, then. I take Anakin as my Padawan learner.

OBI-WAN reacts with surprise. ANAKIN watches with interest.

YODA: An apprentice, you have, Qui-Gon. Impossible, to take on a second.
MACE WINDU: We forbid it.
QUI-GON: Obi-Wan is ready...
OBI-WAN: Iam ready to face the trials.
YODA: Ready so early, are you? What know you of ready?

ANAKIN watches as QUI-GON and OBI-WAN exchange angry looks.

QUI-GON: Headstrong....and he has much to learn about the living Force, but he is capabe. There is little more he will learn from me.
YODA: Our own council we will keep on who is ready. More to learn, he has...
MACE WINDU: Now is not the time for this...the Senate is voting for a new Spreme Chancellor. Queen Amidala is returning home, which will put pressure on the Federation, and could widen the confrontation.
YODA: And draw out the Queen's attacker.
KI-ADI: Events are moving fast...too fast.
MACE WINDU: Go with the Queen to Naboo and discover the identity of the dark warrior. That is the clue we need to unravel this mystery of the Sith.

YODA: Young Skywalker's fate will be decided later.
QUI-GON: I brought Anakin here; he must stay in my charge. He has nowhere else to go.
MACE WINDU: He is your ward, Qui-Gon...we will not dispute that.
YODA: Train him not. Take him with you, but train him not!
MACE WINDU: Protect the Queen, but do not intercede if it comes to war until we have the Senate's approval.
YODA: May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and ANAKIN leave.

EXT. CORUSCANT - SENATE LANDING PLATFORM - NIGHT

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, and ANAKIN stand on the landing platform outside the ship. ARTOO whistles a happy tune as he leans over the edge of the platform, watching the traffic. Suddenly, he leans over too far and falls overboard. After a moment, he reappears, using his on-board jets to propel himself back onto the landing platform. The wind whips at ANAKIN as he listens to the JEDI.

OBI-WAN: It is not disrespect, Master, it is the truth.
QUI-GON: From your point of view....
OBI-WAN: The boy is dangerous...they all sense it. Why can't you?
QUI-GON: His fate is uncertain, not dangerous. The Council will decide Anakin's future...that should be enough for you. Now get on board!
OBI-WAN reluctantly boards the Naboo spacecraft followed by ARTOO. QUI-GON goes over to ANAKIN.
ANAKIN: Master Qui-Gon, sir, I do not wish to be a problem.
QUI-GON: You won't be, Annie....I'm not allowed to train you, so I want you to watch me and be mindful...always remember, your focus determines your reality. Stay close to me and you will be safe.
ANAKIN: Master, sir...I've been wondering...what are midi-chlorians?
QUI-GON: Midi-chlorians are a microcopic lifeform that reside within all living cells and communicates with the Force.
ANAKIN: They live inside of me?
QUI-GON: In your cells. We are symbionts with the midi-chlorians.
ANAKIN: Symbionts?
QUI-GON: Life forms living together for mutual advantage. Without the midi-chlorians, life could not exist, and we would have no knowledge of the Force. They continually speak to you, telling you the will of the Force.
ANAKIN: They do??
QUI-GON: When you learn to quiet your mind, you will hear them speaking to you.
ANAKIN: I don't understand.
QUI-GON: With time and training, Annie...you will.

Two taxis pull up, and CAPTAIN PANAKA, SENATOR PALPATINE, TWENTY OR SO TROOPS, GUARDS, and OFFICERS walk briskly toward the ship, followed by QUEEN AMIDALA, PADME, EIRTAE, and finally, JAR JAR. AMIDALA and her HANDMAIDENS stop before the JEDI.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) Your Highness, it is our pleasure to continue to serve and protect you.
AMIDALA: I welcome your help. Senator Palpatine fears the Federation means to destroy me.
QUI-GON: I promise you, I will not let that happen.

AMIDALA enters the ship, followed by her HANDMAIDENS. JAR JAR hugs QUI-GON and ANAKIN.

JAR JAR: Wesa goen home!

They ALL move onto the ship. The ship takes off.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - THEED - NIGHT

NUTE and RUNE stand before a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

DARTH SIDIOUS: The Queen is on her way to you. I regret she is of no further use to us. When she gets there, destroy her.
NUTE: Yes, my Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS: Viceroy, is the planet secure?
NUTE: Yes, my Lord, we have taken over the last pockets of primitive life forms. We are in complete control of the planet now.
DARTH SIDIOUS: Good. I will see to it that in the Senate, things stay as they are. I am sending Darth Maul to join you. He will deal with the Jedi.
NUTE: Yes, my Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades off.

RUNE: A Sith lord here with us?!!

INT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT COCKPIT

ANAKIN stands next to the PILOT, RIC OLIE, pointing to various buttons and gauges.

ANAKIN: ...and that one?
RIC OLIE: The forward stabalizer.
ANAKIN: And those control the pitch?
RIC OLIE: You catch on pretty quick.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEEN'S CHAMBERS

SABE and EIRTAE stand behind QUEEN AMIDALA as she talks with QUI-GON and CAPTAIN PANAKA. OBI-WAN and JAR JAR watch.

CAPT. PANAKA: The moment we land the Federation will arrest you, and force you to sign the treaty.
QUI-GON: I agree...I'm not sure what you hope to accomplish by this.
AMIDALA: I'm going to take back what's ours.
CAPT. PANAKA: There are only twelve of us, Your Highness....we have no army.
QUI-GON: I cannot fight a war for you, Your Highness, only protect you.
AMIDALA: Jar Jar Binks!

JAR JAR looks around, puzzled.

JAR JAR: Mesa, Your Highness?
AMIDALA: Yes. I need your help.

INT. NABOO CRUISER COCKPIT - DAY

The Naboo Cruiser heads toward the lush green planet. There is only one Federation battle cruiser orbiting. OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN PANAKA spot it on the view screen.

PANAKA: The blockade's gone.
OBI-WAN: The war's over...No need for it now.
RIC OLIE: I have one battleship on my scope.
OBI-WAN: A droid control ship.
PANAKA: They've probably spotted us.
OBI-WAN ; We haven't much time.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN HOLD

The QUEEN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, TROOPS, and HANDMAIDENS get ready to disembark as the ship alnds. The elevator door slides open, and ANAKIN emerges into the hold area. He see PADME and run up to her.

ANAKIN: Hi! Where have you been?
PADME: Annie! What are you doing here?
ANAKIN: I'm with Qui-Gon...but...they're not going to let me be a Jedi.
I'm too old.
PADME: This is going to be dangerous, Annie.
ANAKIN: Is it? I can help... Where are we going?
PADME: To war, I'm afraid. The Queen has had to make the most difficuld decision of her life. She doesn't believe in fighting, Annie. We are a peaceful people...
ANAKIN: I want to help...I'm glad you're back.

ANAKIN smiles. PADME smiles back.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - DAY

The Naboo spacecraft has landed in the Gungan swamp. TROOPS unload the ships in the background as OBI-WAN approaches QUI-GON.

OBI-WAN: Jar Jar is on his way to the Gungan city, Master.

QUI-GON's thoughts are elsewhere.

QUI-GON: Good.

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand silently for a moment.

OBI-WAN: Do you think the Queen's idea will work?
QUI-GON: The Gungans will not easily be swayed, and we cannot use our power to help her.
OBI-WAN: I'm...I'm sorry for my behavior, Master. It is not my place to disagree with you about the boy. I am grateful you think I am ready for the trials.

QUI-GON looks at him for a long moment.

QUI-GON: You have been a good apprentice. You are much wiser than Iam, Obi-Wan. I foresee you will become a great Jedi Knight.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - UNDERWATER - DAY (FX)

JAR JAR swims down into Bubble City.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - CITY SQUARE

JAR JAR enters the main square of the bubble city. He stands, stunned, in amazement and fear. He is nervous and shaking.

JAR JAR: Ello! Where das everybody?

The plaza is empty. He notices that many of the buildings are shot up as if there had been a battle of some kind.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE - DAY

JAR JAR exits the swamp lake and walks over to QUEEN AMIDALA, CAPTAIN PANAKA, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON. PADME, EIRTAE, RABE, ANAKIN, and ARTOO, FOUR PILOTS, and EIGHT GUARDS stand in the background near the starship.

JAR JAR: Dare-sa nobody dare. All gone. Some kinda fight, I tink. Sorry, no Gungas...no Gungas.
CAPT. PANAKA: Do you think they have been taken to camps?
OBI-WAN: More likely they were wiped out.
JAR JAR: No...mesa no tink so. Gungan hiden. When in trouble, go to sacred place. Mackineeks no find them dare.
QUI-GON: Do you know where they are?

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - DAY

The GROUP follows JAR JAR as he moves through the swamp. JAR JAR stops and sniffs the air. The GROUP stop behind him.

JAR JAR: Dissen it.

JAR JAR makes a strange chattering noise. Suddenly, out of nowhere, CAPTAIN TARPALS and SIX OTHER GUNGAN TROOPS riding on KAADUS emerge from the brush.

JAR JAR: (Cont'd) Heyo-dalee, Captain Tarpals.
CAPT. TARPALS: Binks!! Noah gain!
JAR JAR: We comen to see da boss.

CAPTIAN TARPALS rolls his eyes.

CAPT. TARPALS: Ouch time, Binks... Ouch time for all-n youse.

EXT. NABOO SACRED TEMPLE RUINS - DAY

JAR JAR, QUEEN AMIDALA, ANAKIN, ARTOO, QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, PADME, RABE, EIRTAE, and the rest of her group are led through a clearing full of GUNGAN refugees. At the far end are the ruins of a grand temple with massive carved heads. BOSS NASS and several other COUNCIL MEMBERS walk out on the top of a three-quarter-submerged head.

BOSS NASS: Jar Jar, yousa payen dis time. Who's da uss-en others??

QUEEN AMIDALA steps forward. CAPTAIN PANAKA and the JEDI stand behind her.

AMIDALA: I am Queen Amidala of the Naboo...I come before you in peace.
BOSS NASS: Naboo biggen. Yousa bringen da Mackineeks... Dya busten uss-en omm. Yousa all bombad. Yousa all die'n, mesa tink.

CAPTAIN PANAKA and HALF A DOZEN GUARDS and PILOTS look around nervously, and the GUNGAN TROOPS lower their long power poles. The JEDI stay relaxed.
ANAKIN watches everything with great interest.

AMIDALA: We wish to form an alliance...

Suddenly, PADME steps forward.

PADME: Your Honor...

ARTOO whistles a quiet "uh oh."

BOSS NASS: Whosa dis?
PADME: I am Queen Amidala (points to Queen) This is my decoy...my protection...my loyal bodyguard.

ANAKIN is stunned. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON give each other a knowing look.

PADME: (Cont'd) ...I am sorry for my deception, but under the circumstances it has become necessary to protect myself. Although we do not always agree, Your Honor, our two great societies have always lived in peace...until now. The Trade Federation has destroyed all that we have worked so hard to build. You are in hiding, my people are in camps. If we do not act quickly, all will be lost forever...I ask you to help us...no, I beg you to help us.

PADME drops to her knees and prostrates herself before BOSS NASS. There is a gasp from CAPTAIN PANAKA, HIS TROOPS, and the HANDMAIDENS.

PADME: (Cont'd) We are your humble servants...our fate is in your hands.

Slowly, CAPTAIN PANAKA and his TROOPS bow down before the GUNGAN COUNCIL.
Then the HANDMAIDENS, ANAKIN, and finally the JEDI. The GUNGANS are puzzled by this. BOSS NASS begins to laugh.

BOSS NASS: Yousa no tinken yousa greater den da Gungans.. Mesa like dis.
Maybe wesa bein friends.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, and DARTH MAUL walk with a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

NUTE: ...we've sent out patrols. We've already located their starship in the swamp....It won't be long, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS: This is an unexpected move for her. It's too aggresive..
Lord Maul, be mindful.
DARTH MAUL: Yes, my Master.
DARTH SIDIOUS: Be patient... Let them make the first move.

EXT. NABOO EDGE OF SWAMP/ GRASS PLAINS - DAY

A GUNGAN SENTRY sits on top of the ancient temple heah, searching the landscape with a pair of electrobinoculars. He sees something and yells down to ANAKIN at the foot of the statue.

GUNGAN LOOKOUT: Daza comen!
ANAKIN: All right. They're here!

ANAKIN yells and runs over to PADME and the JEDI, who are discussing a battle plan with FIVE GUNGAN GENERALS. SABE and EIRTAE stand nearby. BOSS NASS puts his arm around JAR JAR.

BOSS NASS: Yousa doen grand. Jar Jar bringen da Naboo together.
JAR JAR: Oh, no, no, no...
BOSS NASS: So, wesa maken yousa Bombad General.
JAR JAR: General??! Oh, no..

JAR JAR's eyes roll back, his tongue flops out and he faints.
FOUR SPEEDERS pull up to the GROUP. CAPTAIN PANAKA and a DOZEN OR SO GUARDS and PILOT pile out and join the group.

PADME: What is the situation?
CAPT. PANAKA: Almost everyone's in camps. A few hundred police and guards have formed an underground movement. I brought as many of the keaders as I could. The Federation Army's also much larger than we thought, and much stronger. Your Highness, this is a battle I do not think we can win.
PADME: The battle is a diversion. The Gungans must draw theDroid Army away from the cities. We can enter the city using the secret passages on the waterfall side. Once we get to the main entrance, Captain Pnaka will create a diversion, so that we can enter the palace and capture the Viceroy.
Without the Viceroy, they will be lost and confused.

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN look on with interest.

PADME: (Cont'd) What do you think, Master Jedi?
QUI-GON: The Viceroy will be well guarded.
CAPT. PANAKA: The difficulty's getting into the throne room. Once we're inside, we shouldn't have a problem.
QUI-GON: There is a possibility with this diversion many Gungans will be killed.
BOSS NASS: Wesa ready to do are-sa part.

JAR JAR smiles a very worried and sheepish grin. ANAKIN watches with interest, as does ARTOO.

PADME: We have a plan which should immobilize the Droid Army. We will send what pilots we have to knock out the Droid control ship which is orbiting the planet. If we can get past their rayshields, we can sever communication and their droids will be helpless.
QUI-GON: A well-conceived plan. However, there's great risk. The weapons on your fighters may not penetrate the shields on the control ship.
OBI-WAN: And there's an even bigger danger. If the Vicroy escapes, Your Highness, he will return with another droid army.
PADME: That is why we must not fail to get to the Viceroy. Everything depends on it.

INT. THEED - PALACE - THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, DARTH MAUL, OOM-9, and a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS walk through the throne room.

DARTH SIDIOUS: ...she is more foolish than I thought.
NUTE: We are sending all available troops to meet this army of hers assembling near the swamp. It appears to be made up of primitives. We do not expect much resistance.
OOM-9: I am increasing security at all Naboo detention camps.
DARTH MAUL: I feel there is more to this, My Master. The two Jedi may be using the Queen for their own purposes.
DARTH SIDIOUS: The Jedi cannot become involved. They can only protect the Queen. Even Qui-Gon Jinn will not break that conenant.... This will work to our advantage...
NUTE: I have your approval to proceed then, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS: Proceed. Wipe them put...all of them. INT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE
- DAY (FX)

All is peaceful. SMALL CRITTERS drink out of a large swamp lake. Suddenly there is a disturbance in the middle of the lake. A rush of bubbles, then a GUNGAN SOLDIER riding a KAADU emerges from the water, followed by SEVERAL OTHERS. FROGS and OTHER LITTLE ANIMALS flee in all directions as the GUNGAN ARMY marches through the swamp. The KAADU shake themselves off as they exit the lake. When JAR JAR's KAADU shakes off, JAR JAR falls off.
SOLDIERS on huge, lizard-like FAMBAAS with large shield generators mounted on their backs follow the marching WARRIORS. The GUNGAN ARMY heads out of the swamp and onto the rolling grassy hills.
HUNDREDS OF GUNGAN WARRIORS march in lon lines toward the horizon.
Federation tanks move up to a ridge and stop. In the distance they see the GUNGAN ARMY marching toward them. The GUNGAN GENERAL CEEL sees the tanks on the ridge and orders a halt. The GUNGANS are spread out in a large line.
JAR JAR is nervous. GENERAL CEEL signals to the shield operators.

GENERAL CEEL: Energize the shields.

A red ray shoots out of the generator and blasts into a large dish on the back of a second FAAMBA and spreads like an umbrella over the assembled WARRIORS.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY

PADME, followed by EIRTAE, OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, ANAKIN, and ARTOO, stealthily makes her way toward the entrance to the main hanger. They are followed by about TWENTY NABOO GUARDS, PILOTS, and TROOPS. They stop, and PADME uses a small red laser light to signal across the plaza to CAPTAIN PANAKA, RABE and TWENTY OTHER ASSORTED NABOO TROOPS. They signal back. QUI-GON leans over to ANAKIN.

QUI-GON: Once we get inside, Annie, you find a safe placeto hide and stay there.
ANAKIN: Sure.
QUI-GON: And stay there!

DROID TROOPS mill about the tank-filled plaza. At the far end of the plaza, SEVERAL DROIDS begin to run and fire. NABOO SOLDIERS begin to fire back at the BATTLE DROIDS.
As the ruckus erupts at one end of the plaza, PADME and her TROOPS rush into the main hanger. CAPTAIN PANAKA and HIS SOLDIERS continue to engage the DROIDS outside.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ALARMS ARE SOUNDING a PADME, the JEDI, ANAKIN, EIRTAE, and PADME's TROOPS rush into the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS begin firing at them as they run for cover. ANAKIN runs under a Naboo fighter. The JEDI deflect bolts aimed at PADME back onto the BATTLE DROIDS, causing them to EXPLODE.

INT. THEED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, and FOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS watch the plaza battle on a large view screen.

NUTE: I thought the battle was going to take place far from here...this is too close!
RUNE: What is going on?

DARTH MAUL enters the throne room.

DARTH MAUL: I told you there was more to this...the Jedi are involved.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY (FX)

The Federation tanks begin to fire on the GUNGANS, but they are protected by their energy shield. The tanks stop firing, and the GUNGANS CHEER, until they see the doors to the massive transports open, and racks of BATTLE DROIDS are pulled out and lined up by a squad of STAPS.
The BATTLE DROIDS reconfigure into their standing position. The GUNGANS get ready for an attack. OOM-9 gives the command to move forward, and THOUSANDS OF DROIDS march toward the GUNGANS.
The GUNGANS power up their weapons. The DROIDS slowly march through the protective shield and start firing. The GUNGANS throw their power poles and fling small balls of energy with slingshots. The WARRIORS dump large balls of energy into mortars that heat up and fire the energy goo onto the BATTLE DROIDS, causing them to short out.
The battle rages and the GUNGANS defend their shield generators against the ARMY OF DROIDS. OOM-9 watches from a tank on a hill overlooking the battle.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ANAKIN hides behind one of the Naboo fighters, ducking as large bolts whiz past and EXPLODE near him. PADME and the TWO JEDI destroy BATTLE DROIDS right and left. The QUEEN'S TROOPS and EIRTAE also blast away at the DROIDS. PADME signals to her pilots.

PADME: Get to your ships!

The PILOTS and ARTOO UNITS run for the Naboo fighter craft stacked in the hanger bay. ONE OF THE PILOTS jumps into a fighter right above where ANAKIN is hiding.

FIGHTER PILOT: Better find a new hiding place, kid. I'm taking this ship.

The ship begins to levitate out of the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS fire at it as it falls in behind five other fighters. ARTOO whistles to ANAKIN from a second fighter not far away. ANAKIN runs and jumps into the second fighter to hide.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY (FX)

Two Naboo starfighters exit the main hanger. A tank fires at them, hitting one of them, which causes it to pinwheel into the ground and EXPLODE.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

CAPTAIN PANAKA, SABE and NABOO TROOPS rush into the hanger and overwlm the few remaining BATTLE DROIDS. PADME, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON join forces with CAPTAIN PANAKA.

PADME: My guess is the Viceroy is in the throne room.

She looks to QUI-GON.

QUI-GON: I agree.

They start to head for the exit, on the way passing the fighter where ANAKIN is hiding. ARTOO whistles a greeting as ANAKIN peeps out of the cockpit.

ANAKIN: Hey! Wait for me.
QUI-GON: No, Annie, you stay there. Stay right where you are.
ANAKNI: But, I...
QUI-GON: Stay in that cockpit.

They head for the exit. As they are about to go through the door, suddenly everyone scatters, revealing DARTH MAUL standing in the doorway. CAPTAIN PANAKA, PADME, and HER TROOPS back away. QUI-GON and OBI-WAN step forward.

QUI-GON: (Cont'd) We'' handle this...

The TWO JEDI take off their capes and ignite their laser swords. DARTH MAUL takes off his cape, and ignites his laser sword. Both ends of the sword light up.
At the far end of the hanger, SIX WHEEL DROIDS roll in and transform into their battle position. ARTOO calls ANAKIN's attention to the DROIDS. The JEDI begin to fight the Sith Lord.

ANAKIN: Oh, no...

The DROIDS begin to advance and start firing on PADME and HER TROOPS.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) We gotta do something, Artoo.

ARTOO whistles a reply. Suddenly, the ship's systems go on, and the ship begins to levitate.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) All right, thanks Artoo! Great idea! I'll take over.
Let's see...

ANAKIN steers the ship toward the DROIDS. He pushes a button, and the ship begins to shake.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Where's the trigger? Oops, wrong one.. Maybe this one....

ANAKIN pushes a second button, and the lasers begin to fire, wiping out several DESTROYER DROIDS. ARTOO whistles a cheer.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Yeah, all right. "Droid blaster." Yeah!

The JEDI are engaged in a fierce sword fight with DARTH MAUL. They have moved into the center of the hanger. While the WHEEL DROIDS are momentarily distracted by ANAKIN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, PADME, and HER TROOPS exit into a palace hallway.
The WHEEL DROIDS start firing at ANAKIN. There are EXPLOSIONS all around him.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Oops...shield up! Always on the right...shields always on the right.

ANAKIN flips several switches, and the after-burner ignites.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) I know we're moving. I'll shut the energy drive down.

The fighter rockets out of the hanger. ARTOO and ANAKIN hold on for dear life.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Oops!! Wrong one.

ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) I'm not doing anything!

ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) I know...I didn't push anything.

The SITH LORD's moves are incredible. He is fighting the TWO JEDI at once, flipping into the air, outmaneuvering them at every turn.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

The Naboo fleet leaves the planet and heads toward the space station.

RIC OLIE: Bravo Flight A, take on the fighters. Flight B, make the run on the transmitter.
BRAVO TWO: Roger, Bravo Leader.

The fleet approaches the space station. Many Federation fighters exit the hangers and attack.

RIC OLIE: Enemy fighters straight ahead!

EXT. NABOO GRASS PALINS - DAY

JAR JAR's clumsiness works for him in the battle. He gets caught up in the wiring of a blasted DROID, dragging the torso around with him, the DROID's gun firing randomly, accidently blasting SEVERAL DROIDS in one process.
OOM-9 decides to send in the WHEEL DROIDS and gives the signal. HUNDREDS OF WHEEL DROIDS roll out of the transports and head down toward the battle.
They slowly roll through the deflector shields, then transform themselves once they get on the other side. The GUNGANS blast the WHEEL DROIDS with energy balls. The DESTROYER DROIDS blast many GUNGANS.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

A giant dogfight ensues. ANAKIN's fighter flies into space above Naboo.
ARTOO beeps a worried concern.

ANAKIN: The Autopilot is searching for what other ships?

ARTOO beeps and whistles.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) There is no manual override, Artoo. You'll have to rewire it or something.

ARTOO chirps that he's trying.

ANAKIN: (cont'd) Look! There they are! That's where the autopilot is taking us.

ANAKIN's fighter flies toward the Federation Battleship.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

The SITH LORD drives the JEDI out of the hanger and nto the power generator area next door.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR PIT - DAY

Three swords are crossed in an intense display of swordmanship. The JEDI and the SITH LORD fight their way across the narrow bridge of the Theed power generator. DARTH MAUL jumps onto the bridge above them. The JEDI follow, one in front of the SITH LORD and one behind. They continue their sword fight.

INT. THEED - PALACE - HALLWAY - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, EIRTAE, SABE and THIER TROOPS are trapped in a hallway by BATTLE DROIDS.

PADME: We don't have time for this, Captain.
CAPT. PANAKA: Let's try the outside stairway.

CAPTAIN PANAKA blasts a hole in the window, and they make their way outside the building onto a ledge about six stories above a raging waterfall. SABE, EIRTAE and about TWENTY NABOO SOLDIERS stay in the hallway to hold off the BATTLE DROIDS.

EXT. THEED - PALACE - OVER WATERFALL - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and about TEN OTHER NABOO SOLDIERS are lined up along the edge. They have pulled small attachments out of their pistols and fire at a ledge about four stories above them. Thin cables shoot out of the pistols and are embedded into the ledge. PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and the OTHERS begin to climb up the wall.

EXT . NABOO GRASS PLAINS DAY

The GUNGAN ARMY is no match for the DESTROYER DROIDS. JAR JAR tries to run from the BATTLE DROIDS.

GENERAL CEEL: Retreat! Retreat!

The GUNGANS begin to turn and run, on foot, on their kaadu, and in wagons.
JAR JAR attempts to escape on a wagon of energy balls but only manages to unhitch the back gate, causing all of the energy balls to roll out of the wagon and down the hill. JAR JAR scrambles to avoid being hit by one of the balls. FOUR DESTROYER DROIDS aren't so lucky. They get blasted by the energy balls.
The GUNGANS renew their attack on the DROID ARMY. JAR JAR's bumbling destroys several more DESTROYER DROIDS.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT -SPACE

ANAKIN finds himself in the middle of the space battle. A ship explodes behind him (over his left shoulder).

ANAKIN: Whoo, boy! This is tense!

He looks forward to see enemy ships approaching head on.

ANAKN: (Cont'd): Oops! Artoo, get us off Autopilot!

ARTOO screams a reply.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) I've got control?

ANAKIN fips switches.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Okay, let's go left!

He moves the controls left and the ship responds, turning left.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Yes...I've got control. You did it, Artoo!

ARTOO beeps

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Go back!?! Qui-Gon told me to stay in this cockpit and that's what I'm gonna do. Now c'mon!

An enemy fighter comes into his sights. ANAKIN pushes the controls and instead of firing, his fighter accelerates past the enemy ship.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Oops! Whoa!

Now the enemy ship is on his tail. He tries evasive maneauvers.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) I'll try spinning, that's a good trick.

ANAKIN rolls the ship as ARTOO screams desperately.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) I know we're in trouble! Hang on! The way out of this mess is the way we got into it.

ARTOO beeps a reply.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Which one? This one?

ANAKIN yanks on the reverse thrusters and the ship slows instantly- the enemy fighter shoots past and explodes against the space station.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

The SQUADRON attacks the space station.

RIC OLIE: Bravo flight...go for the central bridge.
BRAVO TWO: ROger, Bravo Leader.

The attack is fruitless.

RIC OLIE: Their deflector shield is too strong. We'll never get through it.

Meanwhile, ANAKIN is being chased by another fighter. ARTOO shrieks.

ANAKIN: I know, Artoo! This isn't Podracing!

The enemy ship fires and hits ANAKIN's fighter, sending it into a spin.
ARTOO screams.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) We're hit!

ANAKIN regains control as his ship enters the space station hanger.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Great gobs of bantha poo-doo!

ANAKIN's ship dodges parked transport ships and other obstacles. A huge bulkhead blocks his way. ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) I'm trying to stop! I'm trying to stop! Whoa!

ANAKIN hits the reverse thrusters and the ship skids to a stop on the hanger deck. ARTOO givesout a worried whistle.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) All right! All right! Get the system started!

ANAKIN ducks down to adjust a control panel.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Everything's overheated. All the lights are red.

ARTOO sees DROIDS appraoching, and beeps frantically.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR PIT - DAY

The laser sword battle continues on the small catwalk around the vast power pit. DARTH MAUL kicks OBI-WAN off one of the ramps and he falls several levels. QUI-GON knocks the DARK LORD off another ramp, and he lands hard on a ramp two levels below. QUI-GON jumps down after him. The DARK LORD backs away along the catwalk into a small door. QUI-GON follows as OBI-WAN runs to catch up.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR ELECRIC BEAM - HALLWAY

The SITH LORD, followed by QUI-GON, enters a long hallway filled with a series of deadly rays that go on and off in a pulsing pattern that shoots down the corridor every minute or so. DARTH MAUL makes it down several walls of deadly rays before they close. QUI-GON is one wall away from the DARK LORD. OBI-WAN is just starting into it and is five walls way from DARTH MAUL.
The JEDI must wait until the next pulse to advance down the corridor.
OBI-WAN is impatient and paces, waiting for the wall of rays to open.
QUI-GON sits and meditates. The SITH LORD tries to patch up his wounds.

INT. THEED - PALACE - HALLWAY TO THRONE ROOM

A window in the hallway blasts apart. PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and HER SOLDIERS climb into the hallway. They head for the door to the throne roo.
Suddenly, two DESTROYER DROIDS skitter in front of the door. PADME turns around and sees TWO MORE appear at the far end of the hallway, trapping them in the middle.
PADME throws down her pistol and turns to CAPTAIN PANAKA.

PADME: Throw down your weapons. They win this round.
CAPT. PANAKA: But we can't....
PADME: Captain, I said throw down your weapons.

CAPTAIN PANAKA and HIS MEN throw down their weapons.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

A DESTROYER DROID blasts one of the shield generators, causing it to EXPLODE. The protective shield begins to weaken and fall apart.OOM-9 sees the shield weaken and orders his tanks forward. The GUNGAN GENERAL signals a retreat as the tanks enter the battle.
The GUNGANS flee as fast as they can. JAR JAR is blown off his KAADU and lands on one of the tank guns. A GUNGAN WARRIOR signals JAR JAR to jump off. JAR JAR is afraid. The gun swings around trying to knock JAR JAR off.
JAR JAR hangs from the tank barrel as it moves along. Finally, he jumps onto a KAADU behind a GUNGAN WARRIOR. EXPLOSIONS from the tank fire are everywhere. It is chaos.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR ELECTRIC BEAM - HALLWAY

The electric rays cycle as QUI-GON sits meditating. The wall of the deadly rays turn away, and OBI-WAN starts running toward QUI-GON and the DARK LORD. When the wall between QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL opens, QUI-GON is in a split second fighting the DARK LORD with a ferocity not seen before. They move into the area at the end of the corridor called the melting pit, a small area that is mostly made up of a deep hole.
The electron ray gates begin to close. OBI-WAN tries to make it to the melting pit but is caught one gate short. He slides to a stop just before he hits the deadly electron field.
QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL battle around the melting pit as a frustrated OBI-WAN watches.
DARTH MAUL cathces QUI-GON off guard. The SITH makes a quick move, bashes his lightsaber handle into QUI-GON's chin, and runs him through. QUI-GON slumps to the floor in a heap.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

The GUNGANS have beeb overrun. Some flee into the hills, chased by BATTLE DROIDS on STAPS. Many OTHERS are herded into groups by BATTLE DROIDS and DESTROYER DROIDS.
JAR JAR and GENERAL CEEL are held in a small group with OTHER OFFICERS.

JAR JAR: Dissa bad, berry bombad.
GENERAL CEEL: Mesa hopen dissa working for da Queen.

INT. THED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and SIX OTHER OFFICERS are brought by TEN BATTLE DROIDS before NUTE and RUNE and FOUR NEIMOIDIAN COUNCIL MEMBERS.

NUTE: Your little insurrection is at an end, Your Highness. Time for you to sign the treaty...and end this pointless debate in the Senate.

SADBE dressed like the Queen appears in the doorway with SEVERAL TROOPS.
Several destroyed battle droids can be seen in the distance.

SABE: I will not be signing any treaty, Viceroy, because you've lost!

NUTE and THE OTHERS are stunned to see a SECOND QUEEN. NUTE yells at the TEN GUARDS in the room.

NUTE: After her! This one is a decoy!

SIX OF THE DROIDS rush out of the throne room after SABE. NUTE turns to PADME.

NUTE: (Cont'd) Your Queen will not get away with this.

PADME slumps down on her throne and immediately hits a security button that opens a panel in her desk opposite CAPTAIN PANAKA.
PADME grabs two pistols, tosses one of the to CAPTAIN PANAKA and one to an OFFICER. She takes a third pistol and BLASTS the last of the BATTLE DROIDS.
The OFFICERS rush to the door control panel as PADME hits the switch to close the door. The OFFICER at the door jams the controls. CAPTAIN PANAKA throws more pistols to the OTHER GUARDS. The NEIMODIANS are confused and afraid.

PADME: Now, Viceroy, this is the end of your occupation here.
NUTE: Don't be absurd. There are too few of you. It won't be long before hundreds of destroyer droids break in to rescue us.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR - MELTING PIT

OBI-WAN screams as the pulsing electron gate opens, and the SITH LORD attacks him. The DARK LORD is relentless in his assault on the young JEDI.
OBI-WAN and DARTH MAUL use the Force to fling objects at each other as they fight. DARTH MAUL seems to have the upper hand as OBI-WAN grows weary.
DARTH MAUL catches OBI-WAN off guard, and the JEDI slips into a melting pit. He is barely able to hold onto a nozzle on the side of the pit. DARTH MAUL grin evilly at OBI-WAN as he kicks OBI-WAN's lightsaber down the endless shaft.
The SITH LORD smiles as he goes in for the kill. At the last moment, OBI-WAN jumps up out of the pit, calls QUI-GON's lightsaber to hi, throwing DARTH MAUL off. The young JEDI swings with a vengeance, cutting the SITH down. DARTH MAUL falls into the melting pit to his death.
OBI-WAN rushes over to QUI-GON, who is dying.

OBI-WAN: Master! Master!
QUI-GON: It is too late...It's...
OBI-WAN: No!
QUI-GON: Obi-Wan promise...promise me you'll train the boy...
OBI-WAN: Yes, Master...
QUI-GON: He is the chosen one...he will...bring balance...train him!

QUI-GON dies. OBI-WAN cradles his Master, quietly weeping.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - FEDERATION HANGER

ANAKIN peeks over the edge of the cockpit to see BATTLE DROIDS surrounding the ship. He ducks back down.

ANAKIN: Uh oh. This is not good.

He looks at the dashboard to see red lights.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) The systems are still overheated, Artoo.

The BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN walks up to the ship and sees ARTOO.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN: Where's your pilot?

ARTOO beeps a reply.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN: (Cont'd) You're the pilot?

ARTOO whistles.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN: (Cont'd) Let me see your identification!

ANAKIN sees the dashboard lights go from red to green.

ANAKIN: Yes...we have ignition.

He flips the switch and the engine starts.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN: (seeing Anakin) You! Come out of there or we'll blast you!
ANAKIN: Not if I can help it! Shields up!

ANAKIN flips a switch and the ship levitates, knocking over the BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN. The OTHER DROIDS shoot, but the lasers are deflected by ANAKIN's shields. ARTOO beeeps.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) This should stop them.

ANAKIN fires lasers as the ship begins to rotate.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) ...and take this!

He presses a button and launches two torpedos which miss the DROIDS.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Darn...I missed!

The two torpedos fly down a hallway and explode inside the reactor room.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Let's get out of here!

ANAKIN's ship roars through the hanger deck, bouncing over the DROIDS.

ANAKIN: (Cont'd) Now, this is Podracing! Whoopee!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

TEY HOW turns to CAPTAIN DOFINE.

TEY HOW: Sir, we're losing power... There is some problem with the main reactor...
DOFINE: Impossible!! I don't...

The bridge explodes.

INT. NABOO FIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

RIC OLIE watches in amazement as the Federation battleship starts to explode from the inside out.

BRAVO TWO: What's that?? It's blowing up from the inside.
RIC OLIE: I don't know, we didn't hit it.
BRAVO THREE: Look! One of ours! Outta the main hold!!

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

Suddenly, all of the DROIDS begin to shake upside down, run around in circles, then stop. The GUNGANS carefully move out to inspect the FROZEN DROIDS. JAR JAR pushes one of the BATTLE DROIDS, and it falls over.

JAR JAR: Wierdind...

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ANAKIN and ARTOO follow the squad of yellow Naboo starfighters into the main hanger.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

RIC OLIE and the OTHER PILOTS gather around as thye exit their ships.

BRAVO TWO: He flew into the hold, behind the deflector shield and blasted the main reactor...
BRAVO THREE: Amazing... They don't teach that in the academy.

ANAKIN's ship skids to a stop behind the other Naboo starfighters. RIC OLIE, BRAVO TWO, the OTHER PILOTS, and GROUND CREW rush to his ship.

RIC OLIE: We're all accounted for. Who flew that ship?

ANAKIN sheepishly opens the cockpit and stands up. All the PILOTS stare in amazement.

ANAKIN: I'm not going to get into trouble, am I?

ARTOO beeps. oh. oh.

INT. MAIN HANGER - COURTYARD - DAY

The large, grand cruiser of the Supreme Chancellor lands in the courtyard of the main hanger. CAPTAIN PANAKA and TWENTY TROOPS guard NUTE GUNRAY and RUNE HAAKO. OBI-WAN, the QUEEN, and her HANDMAIDENS stand before the NEIMOIDIANS.

PADME: Now, Viceroy, you are going to have to go back to the Senate and explain all this.
CAPT. PANAKA: I think you can kiss your Trade franchise goodbye.

The main ramp of the cruiser is lowered as OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN PANAKA lead the VICEROY and HIS ASSISTANT toward the ship. The GRAND CHANCELLOR PALPATINE and SEVERAL REPUBLIC GUARDS descend the walkway, followed by YODA and SEVERAL OTHER JEDI MASTERS.

The CHANCELLOR PALPATINE is greeted by the QUEEN.

AMIDALA: Congratulations on youer election, Chancellor. It is so good to see you again.
PALPATINE: It's good to be home. Your boldness has saved our people, Your Majesty. It is you who should be congratulated. Together we shall bring peace and prosperity to the Republic.

OBI-WAN greets YODA and the OTHER JEDI as CAPTAIN PANAKA takes the NEIMODIANS onto the cruiser.

INT. TURRET ROOM - NABOO PALACE - LATE DAY

The sun streams into the multi-windowed room at a low angle. It is not quite sunset. YODA paces before OBI-WAN, who is kneeling in the center of the room.

YODA: Confer on you, the level of Jedi Knight the Coucil does. But agree on you taking this boy as your Padawan learner, I do not.
OBI-WAN: Qui-Gon believed in him. I believe in Qui-Gon.
YODA: The Chosen One the boy may be; nevertheless, grave danger I fear in his training.
OBI-WAN: Master Yoda, Igave Qui-Gon my word. I will train Anakin. Without the approval of the Council if I must.
YODA: Qui-Gon's defiance I sense in you. Need that, you do not. Agree, the council does. Your apprentice, young Skywalker will be.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - FUNERAL TEMPLE STEPS - SUNSET

QUI-GON's body goes up in flames as the JEDI COUNCIL, the QUEEN, SIO BIBBLE, CAPTAIN PANAKA, the HANDMAIDENS, and ABOUT ONE HUNDRED NABOO TROOPES, TWENTY OTHER JEDI, PALPATINE, OBI-WAN (standing with ANAKIN), JAR JAR, BOSS NASS, and TWENTY OTHER GUNGAN WARRIORS watch. There is a drum roll that stops. Doves are released, and the body is gone. ANAKIN looks to OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN: He is one with the Force, Anakin...You must let go.
ANAKIN: What will happen to me now?
OBI-WAN: I am your Master now. You will become a Jedi, I promise.

To one side, MACE WINDU turns to YODA.

MACE WINDU: There is no doubt. The mysterious warrior was a Sith.
YODA: Always two there are....no more...no less. A maste and an apprentice.
MACE WINDU: But which one was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?

They give each other a concerned look.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY

CHILDEREN SING and throw flowers on the passing GUNGAN SOLDIERS. The CROWDS CHEER. It is a grand parade.
QUEEN AMIDALA stands next to the SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE, ANAKIN, OBI-WAN, SIO BIBBLE, and the JEDI COUNCIL. ARTOO stands in front of the QUEEN'S HANDMAIDENS and whistles at the parade. QUEEN AMIDALA and PALPATINE smile at one another In the parade are BOSS NASS and his GUARDS, JAR JAR and GENERAL CEEL. The GUNGANS ride KAADU. They stop before the QUEEN and walk up the steps to stand by her side.BOSS NASS holds up the Globe of Peace. EVERYONE CHEERS.
The parade marches on.

IRIS OUT

END

ATTACK OF THE CLONES: EXT. SPACE

A vast sea of stars severas as a backdrop for the Main Title, following by a rollup, whcih crawls into infinity.

There is unrest in the Galactic Senate Several hundred solar systems under the leadership of the rebel leader, Count Dooku, have decalred their intentions to secede from the Republic.

This separatist movement has made it difficult for the limited number of Jedi Kights to maintain peace and order in the galaxy.

Senator Amidala, the former Queen of Naboo, is returning to Coruscant to vote on the critical issue of creating an army to assist the overwhelmed Jedi.

PAN UP to reveal the amber city planet of Coruscant. A yellow Naboo Fighter flies OVER CAMERA toward the planet, followed by a large Royal Cruiser and two more Fighters.

EXT. CITYSCAPE, CORUSCANT - DAWN

The ships skim across the surface of the city landscape. The sun glints off the chrome hulls of the sleek Naboo spacecraft as they navigate between the buildings of the capital planet.

EXT. CORUSCANT, LANDING PLATFORM - DAWN

Two Naboo Fighters land on one leaf of a three-leaf-clover landing platform. The Royal Starship lands on the central lead, and the third Fighter lands on the remaining plaform.

A small GROUP OF DIGNITARIES waits to welcome the Senator. One of the members of the group os a well dressed JAR JAR BINKS, a member of the Galactic Representative Commission, and DORME, Senator Amidala's handmaiden.

One of the FIGHTER PILOTS jumps from the wing of his ship and removes his helmet. He is CAPTAIN TYPHO, SENATOR AMIDALA'S Security Officer. He moves over to a WOMAN PILOT.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: We made it. I guess I was wrong, there was no danger at all.

The ramp ;pwers. TWO NABOO GUARDS appear. SENATOR AMIDALA, ONE HANDMAIDEN (VERSE) and FOUR TROOPERS descend the ramp. AMIDALA is more beautiful now than she was ten years earlier when, as Queen, she was freeing her people from the yoke of the Trade Federation.

The DIGNITARIES start to move forward. SENATOR AMIDALA reaches the foot of the ramp, when suddenly there is a blinding FLASH and a huge EXPLOSION. The DIGNITARIES and PILOTS are hurled to the ground as the starship is destroyed.

Klaxons blare, alarms sound! CAPTAIN TYPHO and the TWO ESCORT PILOTS get up and run to where SENATOR AMIDALA lies dying. Beyond, ARTOO DETOO drops down from the Naboo Fighter and rolls toward the wreckage. The FEMALE ESCORT PILOT kneels by SENATOR AMIDALA and takes off her helmet, revealing SENATOR PADME AMIDALA.

PADME: Corde...

She gathers up her decoy double in her arms. Corde's eyes are open. She looks up at her.

CORDE: ... I'm sorry, m'lady... I'm... not sure I... 

CORDE dies. PADME hugs her.

AMIDALA: No!... No!... No!...

PADME lowers CORDE to the ground. She gets up and looks around at the devastation. There are tears in her eyes.

AMIDALA: I should not have come back.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: M'Lady, you are still in danger.

Amidala says nothing.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: This vote is very important. You did your duty and Corde did hers. Now come. (she doesn't respond) M'Lady, please!

She turns. They walk away. ARTOO lets out a small whimper and rolls off after them.

EXT. SENATE BUILDING - DAY

The massive Senate Building glistens in the afternoon sun. Small patches of fog have still to burn off.

INT. SENATE CHAMBER - DAY

The vast rotunda is buzzing with chatter. MAS AMEDDA, the Supreme Chancellor's majordomo, tries to quiet things down as PALPATINE confers with an AIDE, UV GIZEN, riding a small one man floating scooter.

MAS AMEDDA: Order! We shall have order! The motion for the Republic to commission an army takes precedent, and that is what we will vote on at this time.

Everything quiets down. The AIDE disperses, and SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE steps to the podium.

PALPATINE: ...My esteemed colleagues, excuse me... I have just received some tragic and disturbing news. Senator Amidala of the Naboo system... Has been assassinated!

There is a shock silence in the vast arena.

PALPATINE: (continued)
This grievous blow is especially personal to me. Before I became Chancellor, I served Amidala when she was Queen. She was a great leader who fought for justice, not only in this honourable assembly, but also on her home planet. She was so loved she could have been elected queen for life. She believed in public service, and she fervently believed in democracy. Her death is a great loss to us all. We will all mourn her as a relentless champion of freedom... and as a dear friend.

There is a moment of silence. ASK AAK, the SENATOR of MALASTARE, moves his pod into the centre of the arena.

SENATOR ASK AAK: How many more Senators will die before this civil strife ends! We must confront these rebels now, and they need an army to do it.

A second pod moves into the centre of the area with DARSANA, the 
AMBASSADOR OF GLEE ANSELM.

AMBASSADOR DARSANA: Why weren't the Jedi able to stop this assassination? We are no longer safe, under their protection.

Senator ORN FREE TAA swings forward in his pod.

ORN FREE TAA: The Republic needs more security now! Before it comes to war.

PALPATINE: Must I remind the Senator from Malastare that negotiations are continuing with the separatists.
Peace is our objective here... not war.

The SENATORS yell pro and con. MAS AMEDDA tries to calm things down. SENATOR PADME AMIDALA, with CAPTAIN TYPHO, JAR JAR, and DORME, manoeuvre her pod into the centre of the vast arena.

AMIDALA: My noble colleagues, I concur with the Supreme Chancellor. At all costs, we do not want war!

The Senate goes quiet, then there is an outburst of cheering and 
applause.

PALPATINE: It is with great surprise and joy the chair recognises the Senator from Naboo, Padm Amidala.

PADME: Less than an hour ago, an assassination attempt was made against my life. One of my bodyguards and six others were ruthlessly and senselessly murdered. I was the target but, more importantly, I believe this security measure before you, was the target. I have led the opposition to build an army... but there is someone in this body who will stop at nothing to assure it's passage...

Many of the SENATORS boo and yell at SENATOR AMIDALA.

PADME: (continuing)
I warn you, if you vote to create this army, war will follow. I have experienced the misery of war 
first-hand; I do not wish to do it again.

There is sporadic yelling for and against her statements.

PADME: Wake up, Senators... you must wake up! If you offer the separatists violence, they can only show us violence in return! Many will lose their lives. All will lose their freedom. This decision could very well destroy the very foundation of our great Republic.
I pray you do not let fear push you into a disastrous decision.
Vote down this security measure, which is nothing less than a declaration of war! Does anyone here want that? I cannot believe they do.

There is an undercurrent of booing... and groaning. SENATOR ORN FREE TAA moves his pod next to AMIDALA.

ORN FREE TAA: My motion to defer the vote must be dealt with first. That is the rule of law.

AMIDALA looks angry and frustrated. PALPATINE gives her a sympathetic look.

PALPATINE: Due to the lateness of the hour and the seriousness of this motion, we will take up these matters tomorrow. Until then, the Senate stands adjourned.

EXT. EXECUTIVE QUARTERS BUILDING - DAY

The giant towers of the Republic Executive Building seem to reach the heavens. Traffic clogs the smoggy sky.

INT. CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE - DAY

CHANCELLOR PALPATINE sits behind his desk with TWO RED-CLAD ROYAL GUARDS on either side of the door. YODA, PLOT KOON, KI-AD-MUNDI, and MACE WINDU sit acress from him.

PALPATINE: I don't know how much longer I can hold off the vote, my friends.
More and more star systems are joining the separatists.

MACE WINDU: If they do break away -

PALPATINE: No! I will not let that happen!

MACE WINDU: But if they do, you must realise there aren't enough Jedi to protect the Republic. We are keepers of the peace, not soldiers.

PALPATINE: Master Yoda, do you think it will really come to war?

YODA closes his eyes.

YODA: Worse than war, I fear... Much worse. 

PALPATINE: What?

MACE WINDU: What do you sense, Master?

YODA: Impossible to see ... The Dark Side clouds everything. But this I am sure of - (opens his eyes)
Do their duty the Jedi will.

A muted BUZZER SOUNDS. A hologram of an AIDE, DAR WAC, appears on the Chancellor's desk.

DAR WAC: The loyalist committee has arrived, my Lord. 

PALPATINE: Send them in.

They all stand as SENATOR AMIDALA, CAPTAIN TYPHO, JAR JAR, MAS AMEDDA, DORME, and SENATORS BAIL ORGANA, HOROX RYYDER and ORN FREE TAA enter the office. YODA and MACE WINDU move to greet the SENATOR, YODA taps AMIDALA with his cane.

YODA: With you the force is strong...
young Senator. To see you alive brings warm feeling to my heart.

PADME: Thank you, Master Yoda. Do you have any idea who was behind the attack?

MACE WINDU: Our intelligence points to disgruntled spice miners, on the moons of Naboo.

PADME: I don't wish to disagree but I think that Count Dooku was behind it.

There is a stir of surprise.

MACE WINDU: You know, M'Lady, Count Dooku was once a Jedi. He wouldn't assassinate anyone, it is not in his character.

KI-ADI-MUNDI: He is a political idealist, not a murderer.

YODA: In dark times nothing is what it appears to be, but the fact remains Senator, in grave danger you are.

PALPATINE gets up, walks to the window, and looks out at the vast city.

PALPATINE: Count Dooku has always avoided any kind of conflict. It appears he has no desire to start a war.
Why would he kill you? To what end?

PADME: I don't know, but everything in my being tells me he was behind it... 

After gazing out of the window for several moments Palpatine turns to 
Mace.

PALPATINE: Master Jedi, may I suggest that the Senator be placed under the protection of your graces.

BAIL ORGANA: Do you think that is a wise use of manpower during these stressful times?

PADME: Chancellor, if I may comment, I do not believe the...

PALPATINE: ..."situation is that serious."
No, but I do, Senator.

PADME: Chancellor, please! I don't want any more guards!

PALPATINE: I realise all too well that additional security might be disruptive for you, but perhaps someone you are familiar with... an old friend like... Master Kenobi...

PALPATINE nods to MACE WINDU, who nods back.

MACE WINDU: That's possible. He has just returned from a Border dispute on Ansion.

PALPATINE: You must remember him, M'Lady...
he watched over you during the blockade conflict.

PADME: This is not necessary, Chancellor.

PALPATINE: Do it for me, M'Lady, please. I will rest easier. We had a big scare today. The thought of losing you is unbearable.

AMIDALA sighs as the JEDI get up to leave.

MACE WINDU: I will have Obi-Wan report to you immediately, M'Lady.

YODA leans into her ear.

YODA: Too little about yourself you worry, Senator, and too much about politics. Be mindful of your danger, Padm. Accept our help.

As the JEDI leave the office, PALPATINE continues to pace behind his desk.

PALPATINE: I will not like this Republiv, that has stood for over a thousand years, be split in two

EXT. SENATE APARTMENTS - TWILIGHT

A graceful skyscraper twinkles in the evening light of Coruscant.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, APARTMENT CORRIDOR - EVENING

The door to the apartment slides open. JAR JAR walks into the corridor, where TWO JEDI are exiting the elevator. He recognises OBI-WAN and becomes extremely excited, jumping around, shaking his hand.

JAR JAR: Obi! Obi! Obi! Mesa sooo smilen to see'en yousa. Wahoooooo!

OBI-WAN smiles.

OBI-WAN: It's Good to see you, too, Jar Jar.

JAR JAR: Oops! Wheresa mesa manners?
Excuse me, Master Obi-Wan. I completely forgot myself for a moment there. I have had to learn Diplodiaclect... speak it like a native now. Don't really see the point, actually, but members of the Senate seem to prefer it...

JAR JAR notices OBI-WAN'S APPRENTICE.

JAR JAR: (continuing)
...and this, I take it, is your apprentice... Nooooooooo! Annie?
Noooooooo! Little Bitty Annie?
(Looks at Anakin)
Nooooooo! Yousa so biggen!
Yiyiyiyyi! Annie!! Mesa no believen.

ANAKIN: Hi, Jar Jar.

JAR JAR grabs hold of ANAKIN and envelops him in a big hug.

JAR JAR: Annie! Annie! Yiyiyiyiyiyiiii!

INT. SENATE BUILDING, APARTMENT - EVENING

PADME is in a conference with CAPTAIN TYPHO and DORME. JAR JAR enters the room, followed by the TWO JEDI.

JAR JAR: Lookie... lookie... Oops!... Oh, dear, I'm afraid I've forgotten myself again.

PADME and TYPHO rise as OBI-WAN and ANAKIN stop before the SENATOR. OBI-WAN steps forward. ANAKIN stares at PADME. She glances at him.

OBI-WAN: It's a great pleasure to see you again, M'Lady.

PADME: It has been far too long Master Kenobi. I'm so glad our paths have crossed again... but I must warn you that I think your presence here is unnecessary.

OBI-WAN: I'm sure the Jedi Council have their reasons.

She moves in front of ANAKIN

PADME: Annie??
(stares)
My goodness you've grown.

They look at each other for a long moment.

ANAKIN: (trying to be smooth)
So have you... grown more beautiful, I mean... and much shorter... for a Senator, I mean.

OBI-WAN looks disapprovingly at his apprentice. PADME laughs and shakes her head.

PADME: Oh Annie, you'll always be that little boy I knew on Tatooine.

This embarrasses ANAKIN, and he looks down. OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN TYPHO smile.

OBI-WAN: Our presence will be invisible, M'Lady.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: I am very grateful you are here, Master Kenobi. The situation is more dangerous than the Senator will admit.

PADME: I don't need more security, I need answers. I want to know who is trying to kill me.

OBI-WAN: (frowning)
We're here to protect you Senator, not to start an investigation.

ANAKIN: We will find out who is trying to kill you Padm, I promise you.

He's done it again. He bites his lip in frustration and shame. OBI-WAN gives ANAKIN a dirty look.

OBI-WAN: We are not going to exceed our mandate, my young Padawan learner.

ANAKIN: I meant in the interest of protecting her, Master, of course.

OBI-WAN: We are not going through this exercise again, Anakin. You will pay attention to my lead.

ANAKIN: Why?

OBI-WAN: What??!!

ANAKIN: Why else do you think we were assigned to her, if not to find the killer? Protection is a job for local security... not Jedi.
It's overkill, Master.
Investigation is implied in our mandate.

OBI-WAN: We will do as the Council has instructed, and you will learn your place, young one.

PADME: Perhaps with merely your presence, the mysteries surrounding this threat will be revealed. Now if you will excuse me I will retire.

Everyone gives AMIDALA a slight bow as she and DORME leave the room.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: Well, I know I feel a lot better having you here.
I'll have an officer on every floor and I'll be at the command centre downstairs.

JAR JAR: Mesa busten wit happiness seein Yousa again, Annie. Deesa bad times, bombad times.

Captain Typho leaves.

ANAKIN: She didn't even recognise me, Jar Jar. I thought about her every day since we parted... and she's forgotten me completely.

JAR JAR: Shesa happy. Happier den mesa see-en her in longo time.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, you're focusing on the Negative again. Be mindful of your thoughts. She was glad to see us.
Now lets check the security here.

ANAKIN: Yes, my master.

EXT. JEDI TEMPLE - EVENING

The vast Jedi Temple sits on an endless flat plain, silhouetted by a against the traffic-filled sky.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, CORRIDOR - EVENING

MACE WINDU and YODA walk down the long hallways, silhouetted by a lit room at the end.

MACE WINDU: Why couldn't we see this attack on the Senator?

YODA: Masking the future, is this disturbance in the Force.

MACE WINDU: The propecy is coming true, the Dark Side is growing.

YODA: And only those who have turned to the Dark Side can sense the possibilities of the future. Only going through the Dark Side can we see.

MACE WINDU: It's been ten years, and the Sith still have no shown themselves.
Do you think they are behind this?

YODA: ...Out there, they are. A
 ertainty that is.

MACE WINDU: Do you think Obi-Wan's apprentice will be able to bring balance to the Force?

YODA: Only if he chooses to follow his destiny.

There is a long silence as they walk away. Only footsteps are heard.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT

PADME is asleep in her bed, lit only by the light of the city outside her window coming through the blinds. ARTOO stands in the corner of the bedroom. His power is off.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, MAIN R0OM - NIGHT

ANAKIN is standing in the living room. He is in a meditative state. It is quiet. We hear DISTANT FOOTSTEPS in the corridor outside the apartment. Suddenly ANAKIN'S eyes pop open. His eyes dart around the room. He reaches for his lightsaber, then smiles and puts it back in his belt.

The door to the apartment slides open, and OBI-WAN enters.

OBI-WAN: Captain Typho has more than enough men downstairs. No assassin will try that way. Any activity up here?

ANAKIN: Quiet as a tomb. I don't like just waiting here for something to happen to her.

OBI-WAN checks a palm-sized view scanner he has pulled out of his utility belt. It shows a shot of ARTOO by the door, but no sign of PADME on the bed.

OBI-WAN: What's going on?

ANAKIN shrugs.

ANAKIN: She covered that camera. I don't think she liked me watching her.

OBI-WAN: What is she thinking?

ANAKIN: She programmed Artoo to warn us if there's an intruder.

OBI-WAN: It's not an intruder I'm worried about. There are many other ways to kill a Senator.

ANAKIN: I know, but we also want to catch this assassin. Don't we, Master?

OBI-WAN: You're using her as bait??

ANAKIN: It was her idea... No harm will come to her. I can sense everything going on in that room.
Trust me.

OBI-WAN: It's too risky... and your senses aren't that attuned, young apprentice.

ANAKIN: And yours are?

OBI-WAN: Possibly.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT

As PADME sleeps, a PROBE DROID approaches outside her window. It sends out several small arms that attach to the window, creating sparks that shut down the security system. Then a large arm cuts a small hole in the glass. A FAINT SOUND is heard as the small section of glass is removed from the window.

ARTOO wakes up, and his lights go on. The PROBE DROID freezes. ARTOO looks around, makes a PLAINTIVE LITTLE SOUND, then shuts down again. The PROBE DROID attaches a little tube to the window. TWO DEADLY LOOKING CENTIPEDE-LIKE KOUHUNS exit the tube, crawl through the blinds and head toward the sleeping PADME.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, MAIN ROOM - NIGHT

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN continue their conversation in the main room of the apartment.

OBI-WAN: You look tired.

ANAKIN: I don't sleep well, anymore.

OBI-WAN: Because of your mother?

ANAKIN: I don't know why I keep dreaming About her now. I haven't seen her since I was little.

OBI-WAN: Dreams pass in time.

ANAKIN: I'd rather dream of Padm. Just Being around her again is...
intoxicating.

OBI-WAN: Mind your thoughts, Anakin, they betray you. You've made a commitment to the Jedi order... a commitment not easily broken...
and don't forget she's a politician. They're not to be trusted.

ANAKIN: She's not like the others in the Senate, Master.

OBI-WAN: It's been my experience that Senators are only focused on pleasing those who fund their campaigns... and they are more than willing to forget the niceties of democracy to get those funds.

ANAKIN: Not another lecture, Master. Not on the economics of politics....
It's too early in the morning... and besides, you're generalising. The Chancellor doesn't appear to be corrupt.

OBI-WAN: Palpatine's a politician, I've observed that he is very clever at following the passions and prejudices of the Senators.

ANAKIN: I think he is a good man. My instincts are very positive about...

ANAKIN looks stunned. He looks sharply at OBI-WAN

OBI-WAN: I sense it, too.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT

ARTOO sounds an alarm and shines a light on the bed. THE KOUHUNS are inches from PADME'S face. Their mouths are open, and wicked stinger tongues flick out.
OBI-WAN and ANAKIN burst into the room. The KOUHUNS stand on their hind legs and hiss as PADME wakes up. ANAKIN throws himself in front of her, whacking in half the deadly creatures with his lightsaber.

OBI-WAN sees the DROID outside the window and raqces straight at it, crashing through the blinds as he goes through the window.

EXT. WINDOW LEDGE, APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

OBI-WAN flies through the glass window and flings himself at the PROBE DROID, grabbing onto the deadly machine before it can flee. The PROBE DROID sinks under the weight of OBI-WAN but manages to stay afloat and fly away, with the Jedi hanging on for dear life, a hundred stories above the city.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

ANAKIN and PADME stare at the sight of OBI-WAN being carried off by the DROID. ANAKIN turns to her. She pulls her nightdress around her shoulders.

ANAKIN: Stay here!

CAPTAIN TYPHO, with TWO GUARDS and DORME, enter the room as Anakin dashes out.

EXT. CITYSCAPE, CORUSCANT - NIGHT

The PROBE DROID sends several protective electrical shocks across its surface, causing OBI-WAN to almost lose his grip. As they dart in and out of the speeder traffic, OBI-WAN disconnects a wire on the back of the DROID. Its power shuts off! OBI-WAN and the DROID drop like rocks. OBI-WAN realises the error of his ways and quickly puts the wire back. The DROID'S systems light up again and it takes off. 

EXT. SENATE APARTMENTS - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

ANAKIN charges out of the building and runs to a line of parked speeders. He vaults into an open one and takes off, gunning it fast toward the lines of speeder traffic high above.

EXT. CITYSCAPE, CORUSCANT - NIGHT

The DROID bumps against a wall, hoping to knock the Jedi loose. It moves behind a speeder afterburner to scorch him. It takesthe JEDI wildly between buildings and finally skims across a rooftop as OBI-WAN is forced to lift his legs, tenaciously hanging onto the DROID. The DROID heads for a dirty, beat-up speeder hidden in an alcove of a building about twenty stories up. When the pilot of the speeder, a scruffy bounty hunter called ZAM WESELL, sees the DROID approach with OBI-WAN hanging on, she pulls a long rifle out of the speeder and starts to fire at the JEDI. EXPLOSIONS burst all around OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN: I have a bad feeling about this.

FINALLY, the DROID suffers a direct hit and blows up. OBI-WAN falls fifty stories, until a speeder drops down next to him, and he manages to grab onto the back end of the speeder and haul himself toward the cockpit. The JEDI struggles to climb into the passenger seat of the open speeder and sit down next to the driver, ANAKIN.

ANAKIN: That was wacky! I almost lost you in the traffic.

OBI-WAN: What took you so long?

ANAKIN: Oh, you know, Master, I couldn't find a speeder I really liked, with an open cockpit... and with the right speed capabilities...
and then you know I had to get a really gonzo color...

They zoom upward in hot pursuit of ZAM asshe fires out the open window at them with her laser pistol.

OBI-WAN: If you'd spend as much time working on your saber skills as you do on your wit, young Padawan, you would rival Master Yoda as a swordsman.

ANAKIN: I thought I already did.

OBI-WAN: Only in your mind, my very young apprentice. Careful!! Hey, easy!!

As this conversation is going on, ANAKIN deftly moves in and out of the oncoming traffic, across lanes, between buildings, and miraculously through a construction site. ZAM WESELL continues firing at them.

ANAKIN: Sorry, I forgot you don't like flying, Master.

OBI-WAN: I don't mind flying... but what you're doing is suicide!

They barely miss a commuter train

ANAKIN: Master, you know I've been flying since before I could walk. I'm very good at this.

OBI-WAN: Just slow down!

ZAM WESSEL and the JEDI race through a line of cross-traffic made up of giant trucks. The speeders bank sideways as they slide around right-angle turns between buildings. ZAM races into a tram tunnel.

OBI-WAN: (continuing)
Wait! Don't go in there!

ANAKIN zooms into the tunnel after ZAM. They see a tram coming at them. They brake, turn around, and race out, barely ahead of the charging commuter transport.

OBI-WAN: (continuing)
You know I don't like it when you do that!

ANAKIN: Sorry, Master. Don't worry, this guy's gonna kill himself any minute now!

ZAM WESSEL turns into oncoming traffic, deliberately trying to throw the JEDI off. Oncoming speeders swerve, trying to avoid ZAM and the JEDI. ZAM does a quick, tight loop-over and ends up behind the JEDI. She is now in a much better position to fire at them with her laser pistol. To avoid being hit by the laser bolts, ANAKIN slams on the brakes and moves alongside ZAM. She now fires point-blank at OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN: What are you doing? He's gonna blast me!

ANAKIN: Right - this isn't working.

ANAKIN slides underneath Zam's speeder. They race along in traffic, one speeder right on top of the other. The BOUNTY HUNTER skims over the rooftops, causing ANAKIN to drop behind. ANAKIN goes through his gears, zooming around traffic. They race at high speed across a wide, flat surface of the city planet. A large spacecraft almost collides with them as it attempts to land. They round a corner and clip a flag, which gets caught on one of the front air scoops.

OBI-WAN: That was too close!

ANAKIN: Clear that!

OBI-WAN: What??

ANAKIN: Clear the flag! We're losing power! Hurry!

OBI-WAN leans out of the speeder, then crawls out onto the front engine, pulling the flag free of the scoop. The speeder lurches forward with a surge of power.

OBI-WAN: Whooooaaa! Don't do that! I don't like it when you do that!

ANAKIN: So sorry, Master.

They chase the BOUNTY HUNTER through a power refinery.

OBI-WAN: It's dangerous near those power couplings! Slow down! Don't go through there!

Huge electrical bolts shoot between the buildings as the speeders pass.

OBI-WAN: (continuing)
Yiiii, what are you doing?

ANAKIN: Sorry, Master!

OBI-WAN: (sarcastically)
Oh, that was good...

ANAKIN: That was crazy!!!

ZAM slides around a corner sideways, blocking an alley, firing point-blank as ANAKIN approaches.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
Ahh, damn.

OBI-WAN: Stop!!

ANAKIN: No, we can make it.

ANAKIN barely misses the BOUNTY HUNTER'S speeder as he dives under it, and through a small gap in the building hitting several pipes and going wildly out of control. ANAKIN struggles to regain control of the speeder, narrowly missing a crane, barely clipping a pair of giant struts. A giant gasball shoots up, causing ANAKIN to spin and bump a building, stalling the speeder.

OBI-WAN: I'm crazy... I'm crazy... I'm crazy.

ANAKIN: But it worked... we made it.

OBI-WAN: (angrily)
It didn't work... we've stalled!
And you almost got us killed!

ANAKIN: I think we're still alive.

ANAKIN works to get the speeder started. It quickly races to life.

OBI-WAN: (very angrily)
It was stupid!

ANAKIN: (sheepishly)
I could have made it...

OBI-WAN: (furious)
But you didn't!!! And now we've lost him.

Suddenly, there is an ambush. Laser bolts fire everywhere. EXPLOSIONS surround them. They look up to see ZAM WESSEL take off.

ANAKIN: No we didnt...

Out of a cloud of smoke and ball of flames the JEDI tear after ZAM. They are smoking. OBI-WAN slaps out the small fire on the dashboard. ZAM goes up and down, through cross-traffic. There is a near miss as a speeder almost hits them. ZAM turns down and left between two buildings. ANAKIN pulls up and to the right

OBI-WAN: Where are you going?! He went down there, the other way.

ANAKIN: This is a shortcut... I think.

OBI-WAN: What do you mean, You think?
What kind of shortcut?! He went completely the other way! Youve lost him!

ANAKIN: Master, if we keep this chase going, that creeps gonna end up deep fried. Personally, Id very much like to find out who in the hell he is and who hes working for...

OBI-WAN: (sarcastic)
Oh, so thats why were going in the wrong direction.

ANAKIN turns up a side street, zooming up several small passageways, then stops, hovering about fifty stories up.

OBI-WAN: (continuing)
Well, you lost him.

ANAKIN: Im deeply sorry, Master.

ANAKIN looks around front and back. He spots something. He seems to 
start counting to himself as he watches something below approach.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
Excuse me for a moment.

ANAKIN jumps out of the speeder. OBI-WAN looks down and sees Zams speeder about five stories below them cruising past. ANAKIN miraculously lands on top of the Bounty Hunters speeder. The speeder wobbles under the impact. ZAM looks up and realises what has happened.

ZAM takes off, and ANAKIN slides to the back strut and almost slips off, but manages to hang on. ANAKIN works his way back to the speeders cockpit, just as ZAM stops suddenly, and ANAKIN flies forward to the left front fork. ZAM shoots at him with a laser pistol. There is a BLAST near ANAKIN'S hand, which breaks off a piece of the speeder. ANAKIN slides to the right fork of the speeder, where ZAM cant reach him. He scrambles to the top, holding onto an air scoop.

OBI-WAN has jumped into the drivers seat of his speeder and is deftly gaining on the rogue speeder. The two speeders dive through oncoming traffic and then through cross traffic. Finally, ANAKIN is able to get hold of his lightsaber and starts to cut his way through the roof of the speeder. ZAM takes out her laser pistol and starts firing at the helpless JEDI, knocking the sword out of his hand. OBI-WAN races under the speeder and catches the Jedi weapon in the passengers seat.

ANAKIN sticks his hand into the cockpit and, using the Force, pulls the gun out of ZAMS hand. She grabs the Jedis hand, and they struggle for the weapon. It goes off, blowing a hole in the floor of the speeder. The speeder careens wildly out of control. ZAM struggles to pull the speeder out of its nose dive. OBI-WAN gets slowed down by traffic and loses sight of the Bounty Hunters speeder.

Just as the dragster is about to nose dive into the ground, ZAM pulls it out, and it slides hard on the pavement in a shower of sparks. ANAKIN goes flying into the street.

EXT. ENTERTAINMENT STREET - NIGHT

ZAM exits the crashed speeder and runs. ANAKIN picks himself up off the pavement and runs down the very crowded street.

It's the seedy underbelly of the city. Broken sidewalks, garish lights reflected on the filthy puddles. It's pretty crowded with various ALIEN LOW-LIFES, PANHANDLING DROIDS, and the occasional group of UPPERCLASS SLUMMERS.

ANAKIN barges into several of them as he chases after the fleeing ZAM. He loses the Bounty Hunter in the crowd, them sees him again. The young Jedi is having a very difficult time getting through the crowd.

Ahead, ZAM turns in through a door and disappears.

A nightclub sighs is flashing over the door. ANAKIN is just about to follow ZAM when there is a sudden swirl of litter from downthrusters. PEOPLE start moving out of the way, and the open speeder lands in the street beside him. OBI-WAN gets out and walks over, holding out ANAKIN'S lightsaber.

OBI-WAN: Anakin!

ANAKIN: She went into that club, Master.

OBI-WAN: Patience.

OBI-WAN hands ANAKIN the lightsaber.

OBI-WAN: (continuing)
Here. Next time try not to lose it.

ANAKIN: Sorry, Master.

ANAKIN reaches for the lightsaber, but OBI-WAN holds it back.

OBI-WAN: A Jedi's saber is his most precious possession.

ANAKIN: Yes, Master.

He reaches for the lightsaber, OBI-WAN pulls it back.

OBI-WAN: He must keep it with him at all times.

ANAKIN: I know, Master.

OBI-WAN: This weapon is your life!

ANAKIN: I've heard this lesson before...

OBI-WAN finally holds out the lightsaber and ANAKIN grabs it.

OBI-WAN: But, you haven't learned anything, Anakin.

ANAKIN: I try, Master.

INT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN enter the nightclub bar, and everyone stares at them

OBI-WAN: Why do I think you are going to be the death of me?!

ANAKIN: Don't say that Master... You're the closest thing I have to a father... I love you. I don't want to cause you pain.

OBI-WAN: Then why don't you listen to me?!

ANAKIN: I will. I'll do better, I promise.

OBI-WAN: Do you see him him?

ANAKIN: I think he's a she...

OBI-WAN: Then be extra careful...
(nods to a room)
Check it out.

OBI-WAN goes away.

ANAKIN: Where are you going, Master?

OBI-WAN: To get a drink.

OBI-WAN heads for the bar. ANAKIN blinks in surprise, then moves into the room, where ALIEN FACES look back at him with hostility, suspicion, and invitation as he moves among the tables. OBI-WAN arrives at the bar. He signals the BARMAN.

CLOSE - Somewhere in the room a HAND moves to a pistol in its holster and unsnaps the safety catch. At the bar, a glass is placed in from of OBI-WAN. A drink is poured. He lifts the glass.

ELAN SLEAZEBAGGANO: Wanna buy some death sticks?

OBI-WAN looks at him. He moves his fingers slightly.

OBI-WAN: You don't want to sell me death- sticks.

ELAN: I don't want to sell you death- sticks.

OBI-WAN moves his fingers.

OBI-WAN: You want to go home and rethink 
your life.

ELAN: I want to go home and rethink my life.

He leaves. OBI-WAN lifts the drink and tosses it back.

CLOSE. The gun is drawn from its holster and held down out of sight. The BOUNTY HUNTER starts to move toward the bar.

ANAKIN checks out ALIEN FACES. OBI-WAN signals for another drink. The gun moves toward his unsuspecting back.

The drink is poured. OBI-WAN reaches for it. The gun is raised to aim directly at his back, and suddenly OBI-WAN turns fast. His lightsaber flashes. There is a shrill SCREAM and ZAM'S ARM hits the floor. The gun drops from its twitching fingers. Blood spreads.

The room is silent. ALIENS rise menacingly from their seats, and ANAKIN is suddenly at OBI-WAN's side, his lightsaber glowing.

ANAKIN: Easy... Official business. Go back to your drinks.

Slowly, the ALIENS sit. Conversation resumes. Onstage, THE PERFORMERS pick up their routine. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN lift ZAM and carry her out.

EXT. ALLEY OUTSIDE NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN carry ZAM into the alley and lower her to the ground. OBI-WAN attends to her wounded shoulder. She stares up hatefully at ANAKIN. She winces in pain, then nods.

OBI-WAN: Do you know who it was you were trying to kill?

ZAM WESSEL: The Senator from Naboo.

OBI-WAN: Who hired you?

ZAM glares at OBI-WAN.

ZAM WESSEL: It was just a job.

ANAKIN: Tell us!

ZAM WESSEL: That Senator's gonna die soon anyway, and the next one won't make the same mistake I did...

OBI-WAN: This wound's going to need treatment.

ANAKIN: Who hired you? Tell us... tell us now!

ZAM glares hatefully.

ZAM: It was a Bounty Hunter called...

There is a sudden FTZZZ sound. ZAM twitches. She blinks in surprise and dies.

There is a WEOOSH from above. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN look up yo see an ARMOURED ROCKET-MAN taking off from a roof high above. OBI-WAN looks down at ZAM. He touches her neck and pulls out a small, wicked-looking dart.

OBI-WAN: Toxic Dart...

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT - DAY

ANAKIN and JAR JAR stand near the door of the anteroom to PADME'S
 edroom. PADME and DORME move about packing luggage.

PADME: Representative Binks. I know I can count on you.

JAR JAR: Yousa betchen mesa bottums.

PADME: What?!

JAR JAR: (coughs, recovers)
Oh, pardone-ay, Senator. I mean, I am honoured to accept this heavy burden. I take on this responsibility with deep humility tinged with an overwhelming pride.
(pompously)
It is not every day that I am called upon to...

PADME kisses him on the cheek and gives him a hug. JAR JAR turns red.

PADME: You're a good friend, Jar Jar. I don't wish to hold you up. I'm sure you have a great deal to do.

JAR JAR: Of course, M'lady.

JAR JAR bows and goes out. As he passes ANAKIN, he flashes a dazzling smile... PADME is in a very bad mood.

PADME: I do not like this idea of hiding.

ANAKIN: Don't worry. Now that the Council has ordered an investigation, it won't take Master Obi-Wan long to find that bounty hunter.

PADME: (frustrated)
I haven't worked for a year to defeat the "Military Creation Act"
not to be here when its fate is decided.

ANAKIN: Sometimes we have to let go of our pride and do what is requested of us.

PADME: Pride?!? Annie, you're young, and you don't have a very firm grip on politics. I suggest you reserve your opinions for some other time.

ANAKIN: Sorry, M'lady. I was only trying to...

PADME: Annie! No!

ANAKIN: Please don't call me that.

PADME: What?

ANAKIN: Annie...

PADME: I've always called you that... it is your name, isn't it?

ANAKIN: It's Anakin. When you say Annie it's like I'm still a little boy... and I'm not.

PADME: I'm sorry, Anakin. It's impossible to deny you've...
(looks him over)
...that you've grown up.

PADME smiles at ANAKIN. He becomes a little shy.

ANAKIN: Master Obi-Wan manages not to see it...

PADME: Mentors have a way of seeing more of our faults than we would like.
It's the only way we grow.

ANAKIN: Don't get me wrong... Obi-Wan is a great mentor. As wise as Master Yoda and as powerful as Master Windu. I am truly thankful to be his apprentice. Only... although I'm a Padawan learner, in some ways... a lot of ways... I'm ahead of him. I'm ready for the trials.
I know I am! He knows it too. He believes I'm too unpredictable...
Other Jedi my age have gone through the trials and made it...
I know I started my training late... but he won't let me move on.

PADME: That must be frustrating.

ANAKIN: It's worse... he's overly critical. He never listens! He just doesn't understand! It's not fair!

PADME cannot surpress a laugh. She shakes her head.

PADME: I'm sorry... You sounded exactly like that little boy I once knew, when he didn't get his way.

ANAKIN: I'm not whining! I'm not.

PADME just smiles at him. DORME laughs in the background.

PADME: I didn't say it to hurt you.

ANAKIN: I know...

There is a brief silence. PADME comes over to ANAKIN.

PADME: Anakin...

They look into each other's eyes for the first time.

PADME: (continuing)
Don't try to grow up too fast.

ANAKIN: I am grown up. You said it yourself.

ANAKIN looks deep into PADME'S eyes.

PADME: Please don't look at me like that.

ANAKIN: Why not?

PADME: Because I can see what you're thinking.

ANAKIN: (laughing)
Ahh... so, you have Jedi powers too?

DORME is watching with concern.

PADME: It makes me feel uncomfortable.

ANAKIN: Sorry, M'lady.

ANAKIN backs away as PADME turns and goes back to her packing.

EXT. CORUSCANT, SPACEPORT FREIGHTER DOCKS, TRANSPORT BUS - DAY

A small bus speeds toward the massive freighter docks of Coruscant's Industrial area. The spaceport is bustling with activity. Transports of various sizes moves supplies and passengers as giant floating cranes lift cargo out of starships. The bus stops before a huge intergalactic freighter starship. It parks in the shadows of an overhang.

INT. CORUSCANT, SPACEPORT FREIGHTER DOCKS, TRANSPORT BUS - DAY

ANAKIN and PADME, dressed in Outland peasant outfits, get up and head for the door where CAPTAIN TYPHO, DORME and OBI-WAN are waiting to hand them their luggage. DORME is dressed to look like Senator Amidala.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: Be safe, m'lady.

PADME: Thank you, Captain. Take good care of Dorme... the threat's on you two now.

DORME: He'll be safe with me.

They laugh, and PADME embraces her faithful handmaiden. DORME start to weep.

PADME: You'll be fine.

DORME: It's not me, M'Lady. I worry about you. What if they realise I'm not you?

PADME: (looks to Anakin)
Then my Jedi protector will have to prove how grown up he is.

DORME and PADME smile. ANAKIN frowns as OBI-WAN pulls him aside.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, you stay put on Naboo.
Do not attract any attention. Do absolutely nothing without checking in with me or the Council.

ANAKIN: Yes, Master.

OBI-WAN: (to Padme)
I will get to the bottom of this plot quickly, M'Lady. You'll be back here in no time.

PADME: I will be most grateful for your speed, Master Jedi.

ANAKIN: Time to go.

PADME: I know. 

PADME gives DORME a last hug. ANAKIN picks up the luggage, and the TWO PEASANTS exit the speeder bus, where ARTOO is waiting for them.

OBI-WAN: May the Force be with you.

ANAKIN: May the Force be with you, Master.

They head off toward the giant Starfreighter.

PADME: Suddenly, I'm afraid...

ANAKIN: I'm kinda scared too. This is my first assignment on my own.

PADME: There's nothing to worry about...
we have Artoo with us.

The two laugh.

OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN TYPHO watch ANAKIN and PADME disappear into the 
vastness of the spaceport with ARTOO trundling along behind them.

OBI-WAN: I hope he doesn't try anything foolish.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: I'd be more concerned about her doing something, than him.

EXT. FREIGHTER DOCKS - CORUSCANT - DAY

The freighter slowly takes off from the huge docks area of Coruscant. It soon moves into the crowded skies.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, MAIN HALLWAY - LATE DAY

From high above, light streams down from the lofty ceilings. OBI-WAN crosses the floor of the great hallway, heaading for the Analysis Rooms.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, ANALYSIS CUBICLES - LATE DAY

OBI-WAN walks past several glass cubicles where work is going on. He comes to an empty one and sits down in front of a console. A PK-4 ANALYSIS DROID comes to life. A tray slides out of the console.

PK-4 Place the subject for analysis on the sensot tray, please.

OBI-WAN puts the dart onto the traym which retracts into the console. The DROID activates the system, and a screen lights up in from of OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN: It's a toxic dart. I need to know where it came from and who made it.

PK-4 One moment, please.

Diagrams and .... appear on the screem, scrolling past at great speed. OBI-WAN watches as the screen goes blank. They tray slides out.

PK-4
(continuing)
As you can see on your screen, subject weapon does not exist in any known culture. Markings cannot be identified. Probablt self-made by a warrior not associated with any known society.

OBI-WAN: Excuse me? Could you try again please?

PK-4 Master Jedi, our records are very thorough. they cover eight percent of the galaxy. If I can't tell you where it came from, nobody can.

OBI-WAN picks up the dart and looks at it, then looks to the DROID.

OBI-WAN: Thanks for your assistance! You may not be able to figure this out, but I think I know someone who might.

EXT. SPACE, STARSHIP FREIGHTER

The massive, slow-moving Freighter suddenly zooms away into lightspeed.

INT. STARFREIGHTER, STORAGE HOLD - DAY

The great, gloomy hold is crowded with EMIGRANTS and their belongings. To one side ARTOO is coming to the head of a food line, where SERVERS are ladling out bowls of mush. ARTOO holds two bowls.

SERVER: Keep moving! Keep moving!

ARTOO slips tube into a tub of mush and sucks up a large quantity. With one of his little claw-arms, he grabs several chunks of something that looks like brown bread. A SERVER sees him.

FOOD SERVER: (continuing)
Hey! No Droids!

ARTOO takes one last big suck and heads away from the food line. The SERVER shouts after him angrily. The little droid moves past groups of eating or sleeping EMIGRANTS and comes to where ANAKIN is sound asleep. The young Jedi seems to be having a nightmare. He is very restless.

ANAKIN: No, no, Mom, no...

He is sweating. PADME leans over to wipe some of the sweat from his forehead. He wakes up with a start, then realises where he is. PADME simply looks at him. He stares back, somewhat confused. ARTOO fills up two bowls with mush.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
What?

PADME: You seemed to be having a nightmare.

ANAKIN looks at PADME a little more closely, trying to see if he has revealed any of his secrets. She hands him a bowl of mush and bread.

PADME: (continuing)
Are you hungry?

ANAKIN: Thank you.

PADME: We went into lightspeed a while ago.

ANAKIN looks into PADME'S eyes.

ANAKIN: I look forward to seeing Naboo again. I've thought about it every day since I left. It's by far the most beautiful place I've ever seen...

PADME is a little unnerved by his intense stare. 

PADME: You were just a little boy then.
It may not be as you remember it;
time changes your perception.

ANAKIN: I think time has given me much more mature feelings to enhance my perception.

PADME: It must be difficult having sworn your life to the Jedi... not being able to visit the places you like... or do the things you like...

ANAKIN: Or be with the people I love.

PADME: Are you allowed to love? I thought that was forbidden for a Jedi.

ANAKIN: Attachment is forbidden.
Possession is forbidden.
Compassion, which I would define as unconditional love, is central to a Jedi's life, so you might say we're encouraged to love.

PADME: You have changed so much

ANAKIN: You haven't changed a bit. You're exactly the way I remember you in my dreams. I doubt if Naboo has changed much either.

PADME: It hasn't...

ANAKIN: I can't wait to breathe the sweet breeze that comes off the rolling hills. Whenever I try to visualise the Force, those hills are what I see.

ANAKIN looks at PADME when he says this.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
I love Naboo.

There is an awkward moment.

PADME: (changing the subject)
Were you dreaming about you mother earlier, weren't you?

ANAKIN: Yes... I left Tatooine so long ago, my memory of her is fading.
I don't want to lose it. Recently I've been seeing her in my dreams... vivid dreams... scary dreams. I worry about her.

PADME gives ANAKIN a sympathetic look.

EXT. CORUSCANT, DOWNTOWN, BACK STREET - MORNING

OBI-WAN walks down the street. It is a pretty tough part of town. Old buildings, warehouses, beat up speeders and transporter rigs occasional "shiny freighters" hissing through.

OBI-WAN comes to a kind of alien diner. On the steamed-up windowa it says "DEX'S DINER" in alien lettering. He goes inside.

INT. CORUSCANT, DEX'S DINER - MORNING

A young waitress, HERMIONE BAGWA, is wiping off a booth tabletop. There is a counter with stools and a line of booths along the wall by the window. A number of CUSTOMERS are eating - TOUGH-LOOKING WORKERS, FREIGHTER DRIVERS etc. HERMIONE looks up as OBI-WAN comes in.

HERMIONE: Can I help ya?

OBI-WAN: I'm looking for Dexter.

HERMIONE'S eyes narrow.

HERMIONE BAGWA: Waddya want him for?

OBI-WAN: He's not in trouble. It's personal.

HERMIONE stares at OBI-WAN. There is a brief pause. Then she goes to the open serving hatch behind the counter.

HERMIONE BAGWA: Someone to see ya, honey
(lowering her voice)
A Jedi, by the looks of him.

Steam billows out from the kitchen hatch behind the counter as a huge head pokes through.

DEXTER JETTSTER: Obi-Wan!

OBI-WAN: Hey, Dex.

DEXTER JETTSTER: Take a seat! Be right with ya!

OBI-WAN sits in a booth.

HERMIONE BAGWA: You want a cup of ardees?

OBI-WAN: Thank you.

HERMIONE moves off as the door to the counter opens and DEXTER JETTSTER appears. He is big - bald and sweaty, old and alien. Not someone to tangle with. He arrives, beaming hugely.

DEXTER JETTSTER: Hey, ol' buddy!

OBI-WAN: Hey, Dex.

DEXTER eases himself into the seat opposite OBI-WAN. He can just make it. HERMIONE sets two mugs of steaming ardees in from of them.

DEXTER JETTSTER: So, my friend. What can I do for ya?

OBI-WAN: You can tell me what this is.

OBI-WAN places the dart on the table between them. DEX'S eyes widen. He puts down his mug.

DEXTER JETTSTER: Well, whattaya know...

DEXTER picks up the dart delicately between his puffy fingers and peers at it.

DEXTER JETTSTER: (continuing)
I ain't seen one of these since I was prospecting on Subterrel beyond the Outer Rim!

OBI-WAN: Do you know where it came from?

DEXTER grins. He puts the dart down between them.

DEXTER JETTSTER: This baby belongs to them cloners.
What you got here is a Kamino Kyberdart.

OBI-WAN: Kamino Kyberdart... I wonder why it didn't show up in any analysis archive.

DEXTER JETTSTER: It's these funny little cuts on the side give it away...
Those analysis droids you've got over there only focus on symbols, you know. I should think you Jedi would have more respect for the difference between knowledge and wisdom.

OBI-WAN: Well, Dex, if droids could think, we wouldn't be here, would we?
(laughing)
Kamino... doesn't sound familiar.
Is it part of the Republic?

DEXTER JETTSTER: No, it's beyond the Outer Rim.
I'd say about twelve parsecs outside the Rishi Maze, toward the south. It should be easy to find, even for those droids in your archive to find. Those Kaminoans keep to themselves. They're cloners. Damned good ones, too.

OBI-WAN then picks up the dart, holding it midway between them.

OBI-WAN: Cloners? Are they friendly?

DEXTER JETTSTER: It depends.

OBI-WAN: On what, Dex?

Dexter grins. 

DEXTER JETTSTER: On how good your manners are...
and how big your pocketbook is...

EXT. NABOO SPACEPORT - DAY

The Starfreighter lands in the giant port city of Theed.

PADME, ANAKIN and ARTOO are among the EMIGRANTS streaming from the Starfreighter and into the vast docking area. They exit onto the main plaza.

EXT. NABOO PALACE, GRAND COURTYARD (NABOO) - AFTERNOON

The speeder bus pulls up and stops. PADME, ANAKIN, and ARTOO get out. The great courtyard stretches out before them, and they see the rose-colored dome of the palace on the far side. ARTOO WHISTLES. They pick up their gear and start to cross the courtyard. ARTOO trundles behind them.

ANAKIN: If I grew up here, I don't think I'd ever leave.

PADME: (laughing)
I doubt that.

ANAKIN: No, really. When I started my training, I was very homesick and very lonely. This city and my Mom were the only pleasant things I had to think about... The problem was, the more I thought about my Mom, the worse I felt. But I would feel better if I thought about the palace - the way it shimmers in the sunlight - the way the air always smells of flowers...

PADME: ...and the soft sound of the distant waterfalls. The first time I saw the Capital, I was very young... I'd never seen a waterfall before. I though they were so beautiful... I never dreamed one day I'd live in the palace.

ANAKIN: Well, tell me, did you dream of power and politics when you were a little girl?

PADME: (laughing)
No! That was the last thing I thought of. My dream was to help in the "Refugee Relief Movement."
I never thought of running for elected office. But the more history I studied, the more I realised how much good politicians could do. So when I was eight, I joined the "Apprentice Legislators", then later on became a Senatorial advisor, with such a passion that, before I knew it, I was elected Queen. Partly because I scored so high on my education certificate, but for the most part it was my conviction that reform was possible. I wasn't the youngest Queen ever elected, but now that I think back on it, I'm not sure I was old enough. I'm not sure I was ready.

ANAKIN: The people you served thought you did a good job. I heard they tried to amend the Constitution so you could stay in office.

PADME: Popular rule is not democracy, Annie. It gives the people what they want, not what they need.
And, truthfully, I was relieved when my two terms were up. So were my parents. They worried About me during the blockade and couldn't wait for it all to be over. Actually, I was hoping to have a family by now... My sisters have the most amazing, wonderful kids... but when the Queen asked me to serve as Senator, I couldn't refuse her.

ANAKIN: I agree! I think the Republic needs you... I'm glad you chose to serve. I feel things are going to happen in our generation that will change the galaxy in profound ways.

PADME: I think so too.

ANAKIN and PADME walk toward the palace. ARTOO continues to follow.

INT. NABOO PALACE, THRONE ROOM - AFTERNOON

QUEN JAMILLIA is seated on the throne, flanked by SIO BIBBLE and a COUPLE OF ADVISORS. FOUR HANDMAIDENS stand close by, and GUARDS are at the doors.

QUEEN JAMILLIA: We've been worried about you.
(takes her hand)
I'm so glad you're safe, Padm.

PADME: Thank you, Your Highness. I only Wish I could have served you better by staying on Coruscant for the vote.

SIO BIBBLE: Given the circumstances, Senator, you know it was the only decision Her Highness could have made.

QUEEN JAMILLIA: How many systems have joined Count Dooku and the separatists?

PADME: About two hundred. And more are leaving the Republic every day.
If the Senate votes to create an army, I'm sure it's going to push us into a civil war.

SIO BIBBLE: It's unthinkable! There hasn't been a full-scale war since the formation of the Republic!

QUEEN JAMILLIA: Do you see any way, through negotiations, to bring the separatists back into the Republic?

PADME: Not if they feel threatened. The separatists don't have an army, but if they are provoked, they will move to defend themselves.
I'm sure of that. And with no time or money to build an army, my guess is they will turn to the Commerce Guilds or the Trade Federation for help.

QUEEN JAMILLIA: The armies of commerce! Why has Nothing been done in the Senate to restrain them?

PADME: I'm afraid that, despite the Chancellor's best efforts, there are still many bureaucrats, judges, and even Senators on the payrolls of the Guilds.

SIO BIBBLE: It's outrageous! After all of those hearings, and the four trials in the Supreme Court, Nute Gunray is still the Viceroy of the Trade Federation. Do those money mongers control everything?

QUEEN JAMILLIA: Remember, Counsellor, the courts were able to reduce the Federation's armies. That's a move in the right direction.

PADME: There are rumours, Your Highness, that the Federation Army was not reduced as they were ordered.

ANAKIN: The Jedi have not been allowed to investigate. It would be to be too dangerous for the economy, we were told.

QUEEN JAMILLIA: We must keep our faith in the Republic. The day we stop believing democracy can work is the day we lose it.

PADME: Let's pray that day never comes.

QUEEN JAMILLIA: In the meantime, we must consider your own safety.

SIO BIBBLE signals. All the other ADVISORS and ATTENDANTS bow and leave the room.

SIO BIBBLE: (to Anakin)
What is your suggestion, Master Jedi?

PADME: Anakin's not a Jedi yet, Counsellor.
He's still a Padawan learner. I was thinking...

ANAKIN: (nettled)
Hey, hold on a minute!

PADME: Excuse me! I was thinking I would stay in the Lake Country. There are some places up there that are very isolated.

ANAKIN: Excuse me?! I am in charge of security here, M'Lady.

SIO BIBBLE and QUEEN JAMILLIA exchange a look. Something is going on here.

PADME: Annie, my life is at risk, and this is my home. I know it very well... that is why we're here.
I think it would be wise for you to take advantage of my knowledge in this instance.

ANAKIN: (takes a deep breath)
Sorry, M'Lady.

SIO BIBBLE: (to Anakin, amused)
She is right. The Lake Country is the most remote part of Naboo.
Not many people and a clear view of the surrounding terrain.

QUEEN JAMILLIA: Perfect. It's settled then.

ANAKIN glares at PADME. Then QUEEN JAMILLIA gets up, and they all start to leave.

QUEEN JAMILLIA: (continued)
Padm, I had an audience with your father yesterday. I told him what was happening. He hopes you will visit your mother before you leave... your family's very worried about you.

PADME looks worred. They ALL exit down the main staircase.

EXT. JEDI TEMPLE - DAY

The main entrance at the base of the huge temple is bustling with activity. All sorts of JEDI are coming and going.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, ARCHIVES LIBRARY - DAY

A bronze bust of Count Dooku, stands among a line of other busts of Jedi in the Archive Room. OBI-WAN stands in front it, studying the striking features of the chiselled face.

On the walls, lighted computer panels seem to stretch into infinity. Farther along the room in the background, FIVE JEDI are seated at tables, studying archival material.

After OBI-WAN studies the bust for a few moments before MADAME JOCASTA NU, the Jedi Archivist is standing next to him. She is an elderly, frail-looking human Jedi. Tough as old boots and smart as a whip.

JOCASTA NU: Did you call for assistance?

OBI-WAN: (distracted in thought)
Yes... yes, I did...

JOCASTA NU: He has a powerful face, doesn't he? He was one of the most brilliant Jedi I have had the privilege of knowing.

OBI-WAN: I never understood why he quit.
Only twenty Jedi have ever left the Order.

JOCASTA NU: (sighs)
The Lost Twenty... and Count Dooku was the most recent and the most painful. No one likes to talk about it. His leaving was a great loss to the Order.

OBI-WAN: What happened?

JOCASTA NU: Well, one might say, he was always a bit out of step with the decisions of the Council... much like your old Master, Qui-Gon Jinn.

OBI-WAN: (surprised)
Really?

JOCASTA NU: Oh, yes. They were alike in many ways. Very individual thinkers...
idealists...

JOCASTA NU stares at the bust

JOCASTA NU: (continuing He was always striving to become a more powerful Jedi. He wanted to be the best. With a lightsaber, in the old style of fencing, he had no match. His knowledge of the Force was... unique. In the end, I think he left because he lost faith in the Republic. He believed that politics were corrupt, and he felt the Jedi betrayed themselves by serving the politicians. He always had very high expectations of government.
He disappeared for nine or ten years, then he just showed up recently as the head of the separatist movement.

OBI-WAN: Interesting... I'm still not sure I understand.

JOCASTA NU: Well, I'm sure you didn't call me over here for a history lesson.
Are you having a problem, Master Kenobi?

OBI-WAN: Yes, I'm trying to find a planet system called Kamino. It doesn't seem to show upon any of the archive charts.

JOCASTA NU: Kamino? It's not a system I'M
 amiliar with... Let me see...

JOCASTA NU leans over OBI-WAN'S shoulder, looking at the screen.

JOCASTA NU: (continuing)
Are you sure you have the right co-ordinates?

OBI-WAN: (nodding)
According to my information, it should be in this quadrant somewhere... just south of the Rishi Maze.

JOCASTA NU taps the keyboard and frowns.

JOCASTA NU: No co-ordinates? It sounds like the kind of directions you'd get from a street tout... some old miner or Furbog trader.

OBI-WAN: All three actually.

JOCASTA NU: Are you sure it exists?

OBI-WAN: Absolutely.

JOCASTA NU: Let me do a gravitational scan.

OBI-WAN and JOCASTA NU studt the star map hologram.

JOCASTA NU: There are some inconsistencies here. Maybe the planet you're looking for was destroyed.

OBI-WAN: Wouldn't that be on record?

JOCASTA NU: It ought to be. Unless it was very recent.
(shakes her head)
I hate to say it, but it looks like the system you're searching for doesn't exist.

OBI-WAN: That's impossible... perhaps the archives are incomplete.

JOCASTA NU: The archives are comprehensive and totally secure, my young Jedi.
One thing you may be absolutely sure of - if an item does not appear in our records, it does not exist!

OBI-WAN stares at her, then looks back at the map.

EXT. THEED, RESIDENTIAL AREA, SIDE STREET - AFTERNOON

PEOPLE are passing through the little street, OLD MEN are sunning themslves, WOMEN are gossipping, KIDS are playing. ANAKIN, PADME and ARTOO turn onto a side street. ANAKIN is back in his Jedi robes. PADME wear a beautiful simple dress. She stops, beaming.

PADME: There's my house!

PADME starts forward; ANAKIN hangs back.

PADME: (continuing)
What? Don't say you're shy!

ANAKIN: (untruthfully)
No, but I...

Suddenly, there are shouts from two little girils, RYOO (age 6) and POOJA (age 4). They come running toward PADME.

RYOO & POOJA: Aunt Padme!! Aunt Padme!!

PADME: Ryoo!! Pooja!!

PADME scoops up RYOO and POOJA and hugs them.

PADME: (continuing)
I'm so happy to see you! This is Anakin. Anakin, this is Ryoo, and this is Pooja.

ANAKIN and the GIRLS say hello shyly. Then:

RYOO & POOJA: Artoo!!!

As they see the droid, they hug him. ARTOO WHISTLES and BEEPS. PADME laughs. ANAKIN and PADME go on toward the house. The GIRLS stay and play with ARTOO.

INT. PADME'S PARENTS' HOUSE, MAIN ROOM - AFTERNOON

SOLA, PADME'S beautiful older sister, comes in from the kitchen carrying a big bowl of food.

SOLA: (over her shoulder)
They're eating over at Jev Narran's later, Mom. They just had a snack. They'll be fine.

SOLA puts the bowl down on the table, where ANAKIN, PADME and RUWEE NABERRIE (Padme's father) are coming into the room.

PADME: Anakin, this is my sister, Sola.

SOLA: Hello, Anakin.

ANAKIN: Hello.

SOLA sits, as JOBAL NABERRIE (Padme's mother) comes in with a heaped bowl of steaming food.

JOBAL: You're just in time for dinner. I hope you're hungry, Anakin.

ANAKIN: A little.

PADME: He's being polite, Mom. We're starving.

RUWEE: (grinning)
You came to the right place at the right time. Sit down, son.

EVERYONE sits and starts passing food.

JOBAL: (to Padme)
Honey, it's so good to see you safe. We were so worried.

PADME gives JOBAL a dirty look. RUWEE smiles as he watches.

RUWEE: Dear...

JOBAL: I know, I know... but I had to say it. Now it's done.

SOLA: Well, this is exciting! Do you know, Anakin, you're the first boyfriend my sister's ever brought home?

PADME: (rolls her eyes)
Sola!! He isn't my boyfriend!
He's a Jedi assigned by the Senate to protect me.

JOVAL: A bodyguard?! Oh, Padme! They didn't tell us it was that serious!

PADME: It's not, Mom, I promise.
(glances at Jobal)
Anyway, Anakin's a friend. I've known him for years. Remember that little boy who was with the Jedi during the blockade crisis?

They nod.

PADME: (continuing)
He grew up.

JOBAL: Honey, when are you going to settle down? Haven't you had enough of that life? I certainly have!

PADME: Mom, I'm not in any danger.

RUWEE: (to Anakin)
Is she?

ANAKIN: ...Yes... I'm afraid she is.

PADME: (quickly)
But not much.

EXT. PADME'S PARENTS' GARDEN - AFTERNOON

ANAKIN and RUWEE are walking.

RUWEE: Sometimes I wish I'd traveled more... but I must say, I'm happy here.

ANAKIN: Padme tells me you teach at the university?

RUWEE: (nodding)
Yes, and before that, I was a builder. I also worked for the Refugee Relief Movement, when I was very young.

INT. PADME'S PARENTS' HOUSE, MAIN ROOM - AFTERNOON

PADME, SOLA and JOBAL are clearing the table.

SOLA: Why haven't you told us about him?

PADME: What's there to talk about? He's just a boy.

SOLA: A boy? Have you seen the way he looks at you?

PADME: Sola - stop it!

SOLA: It's obvious he has feelings for you. Are you saying, little baby sister, that you haven't noticed?

PADME: I'm not your baby sister, Sola.
Anakin and I are friends... our relationship is strictly professional.
(to Jobal)
Mom, would you tell her to stop it?

SOLA: (laughing)
Well, maybe you haven't noticed the way he looks at you. I think you're afraid to.

PADME: Cut it out.

JOBAL: Sola's just concerned... we all are.

PADME: Oh, Mom, you're impossible. What I'm doing is important.

JOBAL: You've done your service, Padm.
It's time you had a life of your own. You're missing so much!

EXT. PADME'S PARENTS' GARDEN - AFTERNOON

ANAKIN and RUWEE are walking in the garden. RUWEE stops and faces ANAKIN directly.

RUWEE: Now tell me, son. How serious is this thing? How much danger is my daughter really in?

ANAKIN: There have been two attempts on her life. Chances are there'll be more. My Master is tracking down the assassins. I'm sure he'll find out who they are. This situation, won't last long.

RUWEE: I don't want anything to happen to her.

ANAKIN: I don't either.

INT. PADME'S PARENTS' HOUSE, PADME'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

PADME throws some things into a bag.

PADME: Don't worry, this won't take long.

ANAKIN: I just want to get there before dark.

PADME goes on packing. ANAKIN looks around the room.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
You still live at home.

PADME: I move around so much, I've never had a place of my own. Official residences have no warmth. I feel good here. I feel at home.

ANAKIN: I never had a real home. Home was always where my Mom was.

ANAKIN picks up a framed hologram.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
Is this you?

The hologram shows Padme at age seven or eight surrounded by forty or fifty little green creatures. She is holding one in her arms. They are all smiling hugely.

PADME: That was when I went with the Relief Group to Shadda-Bi-Boran.
Their sun was imploding, and the planet was dying. I was helping to relocate the children. See that little one I'm holding? His name was N'a-kee-tula, which means sweethear. He was so full of 
life,. All those kids were. I did everything I could to save him, but he died... they all did. They were never able to adapt... to live off their native planet.

ANAKIN picks up another hologram. It shows PADME at age ten or eleven. She is wearing official robes and standing between two robed legislators. Her expression is severe.

PADME: (continuing)
My first day as an Apprentice Legislator. Notice the difference?

PADME pulls a face. ANAKIN grins. She continues packing. ANAKIN sets the two holograms down side by side - the beaming little girl, and the the stern, unsmiling adolescent.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, MAIN HALLWAY - DAY

OBI-WAN walks through the main hallway to the training area.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, TRAINING VERANDA - DAY

OBI-WAN comes out onto the veranda and stops, watching TWENTY or so FOUR-YEAR-OLDS doing training exercises, supervised by YODA. They wear helmets over their eyes and try to strike little TRAINING DROIDS with their miniature lightsabers. The DROIDS dance in front of them.

YODA: Don't think... feel... be as one with the Force. Help you, it will.
(he sees Obi-Wan)
Younglings - enough! A visitor we have. Welcome him.

The CHILDREN take off their helmets and turn off their lightsabers.

YODA: (continuing)
Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, meet the mighty Bear Clan.

CHILDREN: Welcome, Master Obi-Wan!

OBI-WAN: I am sorry to disturb you, Master.

YODA: What help to you, can I be?

OBI-WAN: Im looking for a planet described to me by an old friend. I trust him. But the system doesnt show up on the archive maps.

YODA: An interesting puzzle. Gather round the map reader, younglings.
Master Obi-Wan has lost a planet.
Find it, we will try...

The map reader is a small shaft with a hollow opening at the top. The CCHILDREN gather around it. OBI-WAN takes out a little glass ball and places it into the bowl. The window shades close darkening the room and the reader lights up, projecting the star map hologram into the room. The CHILDREN laugh. Some of them reach up to try and touch the nebulae and stars. OBI-WAN walks into the display.

OBI-WAN: This is where it ought to be...
but it isnt. Gravity is pulling all the stars in this area inward to this spot. There should be a star here... but there isnt.

YODA: Most interesting. Gravitys silhouette remains, but the star and all its planets have disappeared. How can this be?

There is a brief pause. Then a CHILD puts its hand up. YODA nods.

JEDI CHILD JACK: Because someone erased it from the archive memory.

CHILDREN: Thats right! Yes! Thats what happened! Someone erased it!

JEDI CHILD MAY: If the planet blew up, the gravity would go away.

OBI-WAN stares; YODA chuckles.

YODA: Truly wonderful, the mind of a child is. Uncluttered. To the centre of the pull of gravity go, and find your planet you will.

OBI-WAN: But Master Yoda who could have erased information from the archives? Thats impossible, isnt it?

YODA: (frowning)
Much harder to answer, that question is.

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, WATER SPEEDER, LANDING PLATFORM - LATE AFTERNOON

A water speeder driven by PADDY ACCU, the retreat caretaker, skims across the lake away from the island landing platform where a chrome Naboo Starship rests. ANAKIN and PADME are sitting in the speeder as it skims away to where a lodge rises on a beautiful island in the middle of the lake.

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LODGE, GARDEN TERRACEM LATE AFTERNOON

ANAKIN and PADME walk up the stairs from where the water speeder is parked onto a terrace overlooking a lovely garden. Behind them, PADDY ACCU supervises two serving girls, NANDI and TECKLA, as they carry the bags into the Lodge.

ANAKIN and PADME stop at the balustrade. PADME looks out across the garden to the shimmering lake and the mountains rising beyond. ANAKIN looks at her silently.

PADME: When I was in Level Three, we used to come here for school retreat.
See that island? We used to swim there every day. I love the water.

ANAKIN: I do too. I guess it comes from growing up on a desert planet.

PADME becomes aware that ANAKIN is looking at her.

PADME: ...We used to lie on the sand and let the sun dry us... and try to guess the names of the birds singing.

ANAKIN: I dont like sand. Its coarse and rough and irritating, and it gets everywhere. Not like here.
Here everythings soft... and smooth...

He touches her arm. PADME has become receptive to the way he looks at her but is nervous.

PADME: There was a very old man who lived on the island. He used to make glass out of sand - and vases and necklaces out of the glass. They were magical.

ANAKIN: (looks into her eyes)
Everything here is magical.

PADME: You could look into the glass and see the water. The way it ripples and moves. It looked so real...
but it wasnt.

ANAKIN: Sometimes, when you believe something to be real, it becomes real. Real enough, anyway...

They look into each other's eyes. He touches her chin.

PADME: I used to think if you looked too deeply into glass, you would lose yourself.

ANAKIN: I think it's true...

ANAKIN kisses PADME. She doesn't resist. She comes to her senses and pulls away.

PADME: I shouldn't have done that.

ANAKIN: I'm sorry. When I'm around you, my mind is no longer my own.

PADME: It's the situation... the stress...

He looks at her.

ANAKIN: ...the view.

EXT. CORUSCANT, LANDING PLATFORM - LATE AFTERNOON

Obi-Wan's Starfighter is ready for takeoff. OBI-WAN and MACE WINDU stand beside it.

MACE WINDU: Be wary, this disturbance in the Force is growing stronger.

OBI-WAN: I am concerned for my Padawan. He is not ready to be on his own.

YODA: The Council is confident in this decision, Obi-Wan.

MACE: He has exceptional skills. The Council is confident in its decision, Obi-Wan. If the prophecy is true, he weill be the one to bring balance to the Force.

OBI-WAN: But he still has much to learn.
And his abilities have made him...
well... arrogant. I realise now what you and Master Yoda knew from the beginning... the boy was too old to start the training and...

OBI-WAN hesitates.

MACE WINDU: There's something else?

OBI-WAN: Master, he should not have been given this assignment. I'm afraid Anakin won't be able to protect the Senator. 

MACE WINDU: Why?

OBI-WAN: He has a... an emotional connection with her. It's been there since he was boy. Now he's confused... distracted.

MACE-WINDU: Obi-Wan, you must have faith that he will take the right path.

OBI-WAN climbs into the cockpit of the Starfighter.

OBI-WAN: Has Master Yoda gained any insight into whether or not this war will come about?

MACE WINDU: Probing the Dark Side is a dangerous process. He could be in seclusion for days... May the force be with you.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, YODA'S QUARTERS - LATE AFTERNOON

YODA sits with his eyes closed, meditating. Silence.

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LOUNGE, LATE AFTERNOON

The setting sun touches the mountain peaks. The lake glows in the rose-tinted light. Floatinf lamps glean softly like jewels at the lodge.

INT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, DINING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

NANDI place dessert in front of PADME. TECKLA does the same for ANAKIN. The dessert is some kind of fruit. PADME picks up her fork and goes to spear a piece, but it moves! She frowns and tries again -the fruit moves. She lokk up at ANAKIN. His eyes are on his plate.

PADME: You did that?

ANAKIN looks up - wide-eyed innocence.

ANAKIN: What?

PADME scowls at him. PADME jabs at the fruit - ANAKIN subtly moves his hand and it lifts up from the plate and hovers in front of her.

PADME: That! Now stop it!

PADME laughs. ANAKIN laughs. She reaches out for the fruit - it loops.

PADME: (continuing)
Anakin!!

ANAKIN moves his fingers. The fruit flies into his hand.

ANAKIN: I'm not really supposed to do that... for fun, I mean. If Master Obi-Wan were here, he'd be very grumpy.

ANAKIN is pleased. He cuts the fruint into several pieces and sends one back to PADME. She bites it out of the air and laughs.

INT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LODGE, FIREPLACE ALCOVE - TWILIGHT

A fire blazes in the open hearth. PADME is sitting in front of it, gazing at the flames.

She looks up as ANAKIN arrives. She makes room for him. Brief pause.

ANAKIN: May I tell you something?

PADME: I don't know.

ANAKIN: Then how can I tell you?

PADME: Maybe you should use your Jedi intuition.

ANAKIN: It doesn't work around you. My mind is always a muddle... I can only think of you.

PADME: Anakin, don't...

ANAKIN: From the moment I met you, all those years ago, a day hasn't gone by when I haven't thought of you.
And now that I'm close to you again, I'm in agony. The closer I get to you, the worse it gets. The thought of not being with you mskes my stomach turn over - my mouth goes dry. I feel dizzy. I can't breathe. I'm haunted by the kiss you should never have given me. My heart is beating, hoping that kiss will not become a scar.
You are in my very soul, tormenting me. What can I do? I will do anything you ask...

Silence. The logs flame in the hearth.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
If you are suffering as much as I am, tell me.

PADME: ...I can't. We can't. It's just not possible.

ANAKIN: Anything's possible. Padme, please listen...

PADME: You listen. We live in a real world. Come back to it. You're studying to become a Jedi Knight.
I'm a Senator. If you follow your thoughts through to conclusion, they will take us to a place we cannot go... regardless of the way we feel about each other.

ANAKIN: Then you do feel something!
There's an extraordinary connection between us. You can't deny that.

PADME: Annie, it doesn't make any difference. Jedi aren't allowed to marry. You swore an oath, remember? You'd be expelled from the Order. I will not let you give up your responsibilities...
your future, for me.

ANAKIN: I was destined to be a Jedi. I don't think I could be anything else. But you are asking me to be rational. That is something I know I cannot do. I wish I could wish my feelings away... but I can't.

PADME: I am not going to give into this.
I'm not going to throw my life away. I have more important things to do than fall in love.

There is silence as they stare at the fire. ANAKIN is thinking.

ANAKIN: It wouldn't have to be that way...
we could keep it a secret.

PADME: Then we'd be living a lie - one we couldn't keep even if we wanted to. Mt sister saw it. So did my mother. I couldn't do that.
Could you, Anakin? Could you live like that?

Silence for a moment.

ANAKIN: ...No, you're right. It would destroy us.

EXT. SPACE

It's just like the star map hologram, plus the storm-shrouded planet of Kamino, which is exactly where it ought to be. Obi-Wan's Starship flies OVER CAMERA and heads down toward the planet.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY, KAMINO LANDING PLATFORM (RAINSTORM) - DAY

Heavy rans and hard-driving winds lash the platform as Obi-Wan's Starship approaches. The huge, ultra-modern city of Tipoca rests on great stilts that keep it above the pounding and ever-present waves that cover the surface of this watery world.

The Starfighter lands. OBI-WAN gets out and makes his way through the bowling wind toward a tower on the far side of the platform. A door slides open. A shaft of brilliant light pierces the swirling rain. OBI-WAN passes through it and goes inside.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CORRIDOR ENTRANCE

A Brilliant white light. OBI-WAN pushes the soaking hood from his face.

TAUN WE: Welcome to Tipoca City, Master Jedi.

OBI-WAN wipes the rain from his face and blinks in surprise at a tall, pasty-white alien named TAUN WE. He has large, almond shaped eyes.

TAUN WE: Everything is ready. The Prime Minister expects you.

OBI-WAN: (warily)
I'm expected?

TAUN WE: Of course! He is anxious to see you. After all these years, we were beginning to think you weren't coming. Now please, this way!

OBI-WAN masks his surprise as they move away along the corridor.

Obi-Wan follows Taun We cautiously.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, PRIME MINISTER OFFICE - DAY

The door slides open. OBI-WAN and TAUN WE enter and cross to where LAMA SU rises, smiling, from behind his desk, which, like all the furniture on Kamino, seems made out of pure light.

TAUN WE: May I present Lama Su, Prime Minister of Kamino... and this is Master Jedi...

OBI-WAN: Obi-Wan Kenobi.

LAMA SU: Please...

LAMA SU indicates a chair. OBI-WAN sits. TAUN WE hovers. The room is bathed in brilliant white light. The whole place is ultra high-tech.

LAMA SU: I trust you are going to enjoy your stay. We are most happy you have arrived at the best part of the season.

OBI-WAN: You make me feel most welcome.

LAMA SU: And now to business. You will be delighted to hear we are on schedule. Two hundred thousand units are ready, with another million well on the way.

OBI-WAN: (improvising)
That is... good news.

LAMA SU: Please tell your Master Sido-Dyas that we have every confidence his order will be met on time and in full. He is well, I hope?

OBI-WAN: I'm sorry Master - ?

LAMA SU: Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas. He's still a leading member of the Jedi Council, is he not?

OBI-WAN: Oh, yes. Sido-Dyas.

LAMA SU: (rising)
You must be anxious to inspect the units for yourself.

OBI-WAN: That's why I'm here.

EXT. NABOO, MOUNTAIN MEADOW - LATER AFTERNOON

PADME and ANAKIN are in the middle of an idyllic hilly meadow, its lush grasses sprinkled with flowers. At a distance, a herd of SHAAKS graze contentedly.

Beyond is the shimmering expanse of the lake. Several other lakes stretch to the horizon. The warm air is full of little floating puffballs. They sit on the grass, in a playful, coy mood, talking. PADME is picking flowers.

PADME: I don't know...

ANAKIN: Sure you do... you just don't want to tell me.

PADME: Are you going to use one of your Jedi mind tricks on me?

ANAKIN: They only work on the weak-minded.
You are anything but weak-minded.

PADME: All right... his name was Palo.
I was twelve. We were both in the Legislative Youth Program. He was a few years older then I... very cute... dark curly hair... dreamy eyes.

ANAKIN: All right, I get the picture...
whatever happened to him?

PADME: I went on to become a Queen. He went on to become an artist.

ANAKIN: Maybe he was the smart one.

PADME: You really don't like politicians, do you?

ANAKIN: I like two or three, but I'm not really sure about one of them.
(smiling)
I don't think the system works.

PADME: How would you have it work?

ANAKIN: We need a system where the politicians sit down and discuss the problems, agree what's in the best interests of all the people, and then do it.

PADME: That is exactly what we do. The trouble is that people don't wlways agree. In fact, they hardly ever do.

ANAKIN: Then they should be made to.

PADME: By whom? Who's going to make them?

ANAKIN: I don't know. Someone.

PADME: You?

ANAKIN: Of course not me.

PADME: But someone.

ANAKIN: Someone wise.

PADME: That sounds an awful lot like a dictatorship to me.

A mischievious little grin creeps across his face.

ANAKIN: Well, if it works...

PADME stares at ANAKIN. He looks back at her, straight-faced, and can't hold a smile.

PADME: You're making fun of me.

ANAKIN: (sarcastic)
On no, I'd be much too frightened to tease a Senator.

PADME: You're so bad!

PADME picks up a piece of fruit and throws it at him. He catches it. PADME throws two more pieces of fruit, and ANAKIN catches them.

ANAKIN: You're always so serious. Always carrying the weight of the universe on your shoulders.

ANAKIN then starts to juggle the fruit. PADME laughs and throws more fruit at him. He manages to juggle them too until there are too many, and he loses control and ducks, letting food fall on his head. They both laugh.

ANAKIN stands in front of a SHAAK, yelling at it and waving his arms. PADME starts laughing as ANAKIN runs in circles, chased by the SHAAK.

The SHAAK crosses in front of PADME. ANAKIN is riding it, facing the SHAAK'S tail. The SHAAK bucks, and ANAKIN falls off. PADME laughs even harder. ANAKIN lies still. PADME jumps uip and runs to where ANAKIN is face down in the grass. She turns him over. He is pulling a stupid face at her. She yelps in mock fury and takes a swing at him. He catches her arm. She struggles. They roll over in the grass. Suddenly, they become aware of the contact between them. They let go of each other quickly and sit up, looking away.

ANAKIN stands up and holds out his hand to her. She take it. He pulls her up. And now they are easy together, not self-conscious any more. PADME scrambles up onto the SHAAK behind ANAKIN. She puts her arms around his waist and leans against his back. ABAJUB digs his heels in. The SHAAK starts forward, and they ride away.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY, PARADE GROUND (RAINSTORM) - DAY

OBI-WAN, LAMA SU and TAUN WE come out onto a balcony. Below is a huge parade ground. The rain and wind are brutal. THOUSANDS OF STORMTROOPERS, faces covered by helmets, are marching and drilling in formations of several hundred.

LAMA SU: (beaming)
Magnificent, aren't they?

OBI-WAN nods slowly.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CLONE CENTER, COMMINSSARY - DAY

LAMA SU conducts OBI-WAN through a large eating area. TAUN WE follows as they walk by HUNDREDS OF CLONES who look exactly alike, all about twenty years old, dressed in black. They are seated at tables, eating.

LAMA SU: We modified their genetic structure to make them less independent than the original host. As a result they are totally obedient, taking any order without question.

OBI-WAM: Who was the original host?

LAMA SU: A bounty hunter called Jango Fett.
We felt a Jedi would be the perfect choice, but Sido-Dyas hand- picked Jango Fett himself.

OBI-WAN: Where is this bounty hunter now?

LAMA SU: Oh, we keep him here. After a few hundred thousand clones, the genetic pattern starts to fade, so we take a fresh supply. He lives here, but he's free to come and go as he pleases.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CLONE CENTER, BARRACKS - DAY

The tour continues through a long corridor folled with narrow, transparent tubes into which CLONES are climbing. Once in the tube, the CLONE goes to sleep.

LAMA SU: Apart from his pay, which is considerable, Fett demanded only one thing - an unaltered clone for himself. Curious isn't it?

OBI-WAN: Unaltered?

LAMA SU: Pure genetic replication. No tampering with the structure to make it more docile... and no growth acceleration...

OBI-WAN: I would like to meet this Jango Fett.

TAUN WE: I would be most happy to arrange it, for you.

TAUN WE bows, and leaves.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CLONE CENTER, CLASSROOM - DAY

The tour continues through a classroom filled with IDENTICAL YOUNG BOY CLONES.

OBI-WAN: You mentioned growth acceleration...

LAMA SU: Oh yes, it's essential.
Otherwise, a mature clone would take a lifetime to grow. Now, we can do it in half the time. Those items you saw on the parade ground were started ten years ago, when Sido-dyas first placed the order, and they're already mature...

OBI-WAN looks at the BOY CLONES.

OBI-WAN: And these?

LAMA SU: About five years ago.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CLONE CENTER, HATCHERY - DAY

They enter a space filled with great racks of glass spheres, which are filled with fluid in which EMBRYOS are suspended.

LAMA SU: They're immensely superior to droids, capable of independent thought and action.

OBI-WAN: Very impressive.

LAMA SU: I'd hoped you would be pleased. 

OBI-WAN gazes at the nearest embryos.

OBI-WAN: (carefully)
Tell me, prime minister, when my Master Sido-dyas first contacted you, did he say the order was for... himself... or?

LAMA SU: Himself? Of course not. This army is for the Republic?

OBI-WAN: (astonished)
The Repubic?

LAMA SU: We are also very much agasint this Count Dooku and his seccessionist movement. We are proud to be of help to the Republic.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, APARTMENT - LATE DAY

TAUN WE shows OBI-WAN into his room.

TAUN WE: I have arranged for you to meet Jango Fett in the morning. Sleep well.

TAUN WE goes. The door slides closed behind him. OBI-WAN looks around, then moves swiftly to check the room over. Finally, satisfied, he takes out his comlink.

OBI-WAN: Arfour, Arfour...

EXT. TIPOCA CITY LANDING PLATFORM, JEDI FIGHTER, (RAINSTORM) - LATE DAY

The R4 D17, Obi-Wan's Astro-Droid, who is sitting on top of Obi-Wan's Starfighter, switches on and BEEPS.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, APARTMENT - LATE DAY

OBI-WAN hears ARFOUR BEEP through his comlink.

OBI-WAN: Arfour, relay this, "scramble code five," to Courscant: care of "the old folks home."

EXT. TIPOCA CITY LANDING PLATFORM, JEDI FIGHTER, (RAINSTORM) - LATE DAY

ARFOUR BEEPS and WHISTLES. The panels light up inside the cockpit, as the message is transmitted.

EXT. JEDI TEMPLE, LIVINF QUARTERS - EARLY EVENING

YODA and MACE WINDU listen as a hologram of OBI-WAN stands between them broadcasting the massage. The singnal is very weak, the image fades in and out.

OBI-WAN (V.O.)
...I've never heard of a Jedi called Sido-Dyas, have you, Master?

MACE WINDU: No. Whoever placed that order was not a Jedi, I can assure you.

OBI-WAN (V.O.)
I have a strong feeling that this bounty hunter is the assassin we're looking for.

YODA: Who he is working for... discover that, you must.

OBI-WAN (V.O.)
I will, Master, and I will also find out more about this clone army... May The Force...

The hologram switches off, and OBI-WAN fades away.

WINDU: A clone army! Ordered by someone in the Senate perhaps... Someone's out to start a war.

YODA: Inform the chancellor of this, we must.

WINDU: Who do you think this impostor Sido-Dyas, could be?

YODA stares back at MACE WINDU, then slowly shakes his head.

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT - NIGHT

The silent lodge. The triple moons of Naboo reflected in the tranquil waters of the lake.

INT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, ANAKIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

ANAKIN moves restlessly in his sleep. He mutters to himself. Sweat 
forms on his forehead. He turns violently. He cries out.

ANAKIN: No...No...No...Mom!...Don't, no, don't!

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LODGE, BALCONY OVERLOOKING GARDENS - MORNING

ANAKIN is on the balcony overlooking the gardens. After a moment, PAMDE comes onto the balcony behind him. She sees he is meditating and turns to go.

ANAKIN: (eyes closed)
Don't go.

PAMDE: I don't want to disturb you.

ANAKIN: Your presence is soothing.

Brief pause.

PADME: You had a nightmare again last night.

ANAKIN: Jedi don't have nightmares.

PADME: I heard you.

ANAKIN'S opens his eyes and looks at her.

ANAKIN: I saw my mother. I saw her as clearly as I see you now. She's suffering, Padme. She is in pain...They're killing her!
(getting up)
I know I'm disobeying my mandate to protect you, Senator. I know I will be punished and possibly thrown out of the Jedi Order, but I must go. I have to help her!
I'm sorry, Padme. I don't have a choice.

PADME: Annie, I told you I wouldn't let you give up your future for me.
I'll go with you. That way you can continue to protect me, and you won't be disobeying your mandate.

ANAKIN: What about Master Obi-wan?

PADME smiles and takes his hand.

PADME: I guess we won't tell him, will we?

EXT. NABOO LAKE, FLOATING LANDING PLATFORM - DAY

ANAKIN and PADME step onto the landing platform from the water speeder. They enter the Naboo Starship. ARTOO BEEPS, and follows them on board. The ramp retracts.

PADDY ACCU drives the water speeder away from the platform as Anakin's Starship takes off.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY (RAINSTORM) - DAY

Rain lashes the city. Below, mightly waves pound the stilts, breaking almost to the height of the platforms.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CORRIDOR - DAY

TAUN WE conducts OBI-WAN to the door of Jango Fett's apartment. TAUN WE waves his hand, and a muted bell RINGS.

As they wait, OBI-WAN notes the door lock entry mechanism. Then the door opens, and a ten-year-old boy, BOBA FETT, looks at them. He is identical to the boys in the classroom.

TAUN WE: Boba, is your father here?

There is a brief pause, then BOBA FETT nods.

TAUN WE: (continuing)
May we see him?

BOBA FETT: Sure.

Another brief pause, then BOBA FETT steps aside, and TAUN WE and OBI-WAN go through.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, FETT APARTMENT - DAY

OBI-WAN, TAUN WE, and BOBA FETT enter the apartment. OBI-WAN looks around the room.

BOBA FETT: Dad! Taun We's here!

JANGO FETT comes in from the bedroom. He wears a jumpsuit. He is unshaven and mean looking, his face pitted with scars of old wounds. There are a couple of weird tattoos on his muscular forearms. He eyes OBI-WAN with suspicion.

TAUN WE: Welcome back, Jango. Was your trip productive?

JANGO FETT: Fairly.

OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT size each other up. BOBA FETT studies both of them.

TAUN WE: This is Jedi Master, Obi-Wan Kenobi. He's come to check on our progress.

JANGO FETT: That right?

JANGO FETT'S eyes fix OBI-WAN coldly.

OBI-WAN: Your clones are very impressive.
You must be very proud.

JANGO FETT: I'm just a simple man, trying to make my way in the universe, Master Jedi.

OBI-WAN: Aren't we all?

OBI-WAN eyes the half-open bedroom door, through which a couple of pieces of body armour can be seen on the floor. JANGO FETT registers OBI-WAN'S look. He moves in front of him, blocking the view.

OBI-WAN: (continuing)
Ever made your way as far into the interior as Coruscant?

JANGO: Once or twice.

OBI-WAN: Recently?

JANGO: (eyes Obi-Wan carefully)
Possibly...

OBI-WAN: Then you must know Master Sido- Dyas?

JANGO: Boba, close the door.

BOBA FETT moves to close the bedroom door. JANGO FETT smiles thinly at OBI-WAN.

JANGO: (continuing)
Master who?

OBI-WAN: Sido-Dyas. Isnt he the Jedi who hired you for this job?

JANGO: Never heard of him. I was recuited by a man called Darth Tyranus on one of the moons of Bogden.

OBI-WAN: No? I thought...

TAUN WE: Sido-Dyas told us to expect him.
And he showed up just when your Jedi Master said he would. We have kept the Jedis involvement a secret until your arrival, just as your Master requested.

OBI-WAN: Curious...

JANGO: Do you like your army?

OBI-WAN: It seems to me it's your army - being that they are all clones of you.

JANGO: (grinning)
They'll do their job well, I'll guarantee that.

OBI-WAN: I look forward to seeing them in action. Thank you for your time, Jango.

JANGO: Always a pleasure to meet a Jedi.

OBI-WAN and TAUN WE go out. The door slides closed. JANGO FETT turns to his son. He is deep in thought.

BOBA: What is it, Dad?

EXT. SPACE

The Naboo Starship heads toward the desert planet of Tatooine.

EXT. TATOOINE, MOS ESPA STREETS AND WATTO'S SHIP - DAY

The Naboo Starship lands in a large parking lot of Spaceships on the outskirts of Mos Espa. ANAKIN and PADME ride a rickshaw through the streets. ANAKIN stares at sights he hasn't seen for years. Finally, they come to Wattos' shop, and the rickshaw stops.

ANAKIN: (to the droid driver)
Wait, please.

ANAKIN and PADME get down. Sitting on a stool in front of the shop is WATTO. He is using a small electronic screwdriver on a fiddly DROID. THREE PIT DROIDS are chattering away and are trying to help him, but they seem only to make him madder.

WATTO: (yelling, in Huttese)
No, not that one - that one!

ANAKIN: (arriving)
Excuse me, Watto.

WATTO: (in Huttese)
What?

ANAKIN: (in Huttese)
I said excuse me.

WATTO turns to the chattering PIT DROIDS.

WATTO: (in Huttese)
Shut down.

The PIT DROIDS snap into their storage position.

WATTO: (continuing, in Huttese)
What? I don't know you... What can I do for you? You look like a Jedi. Whatever it is... I didn't do it.

WATTO drops the screwdriver and curses loudly in Huttese

ANAKIN: Let me help you with that.

ANAKIN takes the fiddly piece of equipment and starts to play with it. WATTO blinks in surprise.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
I'm looking for Shmi Skywalker.

WATTO looks at him suspiciously. He stares at PADME, then back to ANAKIN.

WATTO: Annie?? Little Annie?? Naaaah!!

Suddenly, the fiddly piece of equipment in Anakin's hands WHIRS into life. WATTO blinks at it.

WATTO: (continuing; in English)
You are Annie! It is you! You little womp rat.

WATTO gives ANAKIN a big hug.

WATTO: (continuing)
You sure sprouted Weehoo! A
 edi! Waddya know? Hey, maybe you couldda help wit some daedbeats who owe...

ANAKIN: My mother...

WATTO: Oh, yeah. Shmi... she's not mine no more. I sold her.

ANAKIN: Sold her...

WATTO: Years ago. Sorry, Anne, but you know, business is business.
Sold her to a moisture farmer named Lars. Least I think it was Lars. Believe it or not, I heard he freed her and married her. Can ya beat that?

ANAKIN: Do you know where they are?

WATTO: Long way from here... someplace over on the other side of Mos Eisley, I think...

ANAKIN: I'd like to know.

ANAKIN'S grim look means business; WATTO gets the hint quickly.

WATTO: Yeah... sure... absolutely. Let's go look in my records.

ANAKIN and WATTO go into the shop.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY (RAINSTORM) - DAY

The waves crash against the water city as the storm continues. Light suddenlyt streams from the base of a landing platform as a door slides open.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CORRIDOR - DAY

OBI-WAN stands with LAMA SU and TAUN WE just inside the open door.

LAMA SU: Tell your Council the first battalions are ready. And remind them that if they need more troops, we will need time to grow them.

OBI-WAN: I won't forget.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY, KAMINO LANDING PLATFORM (RAINSTORM) - DAY

OBI-WAN comes out from the tower into the driving ran. The door closes behind him. He pulls his robe around him and stands braced against the gale.

Below, a huge wave crashes against the stilts. Spray flies high and whips across the platform where OBI-WAN is standing. He walks over to his Starfighter, looks to see if anyone is watching, then turns and goes back to the door. It slides open.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CORRIDOR - DAY

OBI-WAN enters cautiously from outside. Ahead, the corridor is deserted. He moves down it.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, FETT APARTMENT - DAY

OBI-WAN walks in to find the room in complete disorder. The bedroom door is wide open - clear signs of hurried departure. All of the Fetts' personal belongings are gone.

OBI-WAN goes to an ultra-thin computer screen. He punches up AN ONSCREEN PICTURE of JANGO FETT and BOBA FETT unhitching the lines securing their ship to the landing platform. JANGO FETT is wearing his armour and rocket pack. BOBA FETT climbs aboard the small Fighter.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY, KAMINO LANDING PLATFORM (RAINSTORM) - DAY

JANGO FETT picks up a case and swings it up to BOBA FETT, who stows it inside the ship. JANGO FETT picks up another case and is about to swing it, when:

BOBA FETT: Dad!!

JANGO FETT turns to see OBI-WAN charging out of the tower toward him. As he runs, OBI-WAN draws his lightsaber from his belt. It flashes on.

JANGO FETT draws his gun and fires at the charging JEDI. OBI-WAN deflects the blast and swings at JANGO FETT.

The bounty hunter rockets up and over OBI-WAN, landing behind him. He fires a thin wire from his wrist pack, trying to entangle the Jedi.

JANGO FETT fire several Kamino Kyber Darts from his elbow launcher. OBI-WAN deflects them back at JANGO FETT, but they strike harmlessly against the bounty hunter's armour.

IN THE COCKPIT of Jango Fett's ship, BOBA FETT grabs the controls of a laser gun and swings it to aim at OBI-WAN.

OUTSIDE, in the driving rain, OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT circle each other, sizing each other up - feinting.

IN THE COCKPIT, each time BOBA FETT is ready to fire, JANGO FETT blocks his view of OBI-WAN.

OUTSIDE, OBI-WAN makes a sudden attack, swinging at JANGO FETT, who deflects the blows. One slices off a piece of the bounty hunter's shoulder plate. JANGO FETT rockets into the air and hovers above OBI-WAN. The Jedi spins as:

IN THE COCKPIT, BOBA FETT fires.

OUTSIDE, the laser shell streaks past OBI-WAN to strike the edge of the tower. JANGO FETT fires down at OBI-WAN. The Jedi deflects the shots back, but JANGO FETT evades them. Then he swoops down, swinging around OBI-WAN. As he shoots past, he kicks the lightsaber out of the Jedi's hand.

The lightsaber skids across the wet surface of the landing platform. OBI-WAN dives after it. JANGO FETT zooms in front of him and grabs the lightsaber. OBI-WAN punches it out of his hand.

IN THE COCKPIT, BOBA FETT watches as:

OUTSIDE, OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT grapple and fight, punching, kicking, grabbing hold, and throwing each other around. OBI-WAN grabs JANGO FETT tightly, and JANGO FETT rockets up into the air and kicks OBI-WAN loose. OBI-WAN crashes to the deck and slides toward the edge. He grapples desperately for a handhold on the slick surface.

JANGO FETT rockets down to kick at him. OBI-WAN hauls himself up. JANGO FETT zooms to the far side of the platform.

OBI-WAN uses Jedi powers to pull part of the structure loose. It hits JANGO FETT, who loses his balance, teetering on the edge. OBI-WAN charges acress, dives, and grabs hold of JANGO FETT just as he falls over the edge.

Locked together, OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT plummet down toward the raging ocean. At the last moment, JANGO FETT fires a cable out of his backpack that shoots upward and locks onto a metal strut on the underside of the platform. OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT swing and CRASH onto one of the stilts.

OBI-WAN is knocked clear and drops onto a SMALL SERVICE PLATFORM just above the waves. He hauls himself to his feet. JANGO FETT hovers in mid-air opposite him, as a HUGE WAVE crashes over OBI-WAN. When it subsides, the Jedi has disappeared.

JANGO FETT rockets up to the landing platform, where he drops down beside his ship. He clambers inside the cockpit and settles into the pilot's seat. He punches buttons. The engines ROAR.

OUTSIDE, Jango Fett's ship lifts off from the platform and heads up into the lowering sky. It disappears. Lightning flashes. Rain lashes the tower and streams across the surface of the platform, to where:

A HAND suddenlt clutches at the very edge of the platform. A moment later, ANOTHER HAND grabs hold.

EXT. TATOOINE, BLUFF OVERLOOKING HOMESTEAD - LATE DAY

The Naboo Starship descends, hovers, and land on a bluff. ANAKIN and PADME get out. They look down from the edge of the bluff to where the homestead is seen on the desert floor below.

PADME: Stay with the ship, Artoo.

ARTOO WHISTLES as ANAKIN and PADME start down the trail toward the homestead.

EXT. TATOOINE, DESERT, HOMESTEAD MOISTURE FARM - LATE DAY

C-3PO is working outside the homestead. He still lacks an outer covering; his inner parts and wiring show. He looks up as ANAKIN and PADME arrive,

C-3PO: Good evening. May I help you?

ANAKIN: Threepio?

C-3PO: Oh, my... oh, my! Master Anakin! My goodness, I can hardly believe it! And this must be Miss Padme.

PADME: Hello, Threepio.

ANAKIN: I've come to see my mother.

C-3PO: Oh, dear! I'm so terribly sorry, Master Annie.

PADME: Threepio, what's happened?

C-3PO: I think we'd better go inside.

EXT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, COURTYARD - LATE DAY

ANAKIN, PADME and THREEPIO arrive in the courtyard. THREEPIO shuffles ahead.

C-3PO: Master Lars - Master Owen!
Somebody to see you!

OWEN LARS and BERU WHITESUN come out into the courtyard.

ANAKIN: I'm Anakin Skywalker. I'm here looking for my mother.

OWEN: Owen Lars... I guess I'm your step-brother.
(they shake hands)
This is my girlfriend, Beru.

BERU: Hello.

PADME: I'm Padme.

OWEN: I had a feeling you might show up some day.

ANAKIN: Is my mother here?

CLIEGG: No, she's not.

CLIEGG LARS swings from the house on a small floating chair. One of his legs is heavily bandaged; the other is missing. He balances awkwardly and puts out a hand.

CLIEGG: (continuing)
Cliegg Lars. Shmi is my wife...
Come on inside. We have a lot to talk about.

INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, KITCHEN - LATE DAY

BERU puts several steaming cups of ardees on a tray and exits the kitchen...

CLIEGG (O.S.)
It was just before dawn. They came out of nowhere. A hunting party of Tusekn Raiders.

INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, DINING AREA - LATE DAY

CLIEGG, OWEN, PADME and ANAKIN sit around the table, BERU brings the drinks from the kitchen.

CLIEGG: Your mother had gone out early, like she always did, to pick mushrooms that grow on the vaporatos. From the tracks, she was about halfway when they took her. Those Tuskens walk like men, but they're vicious, mindless monsters. Thirty of us went out after her. Four of us came back.
Three more are still out there looking. I'd be with them, only... I just couldn't ride any more... until I heal.

CLIEGG grimaces, easing his throbbing leg.

CLIEGG: (continuing)
This isn't the way I wanted to meet you, son. This isn't how your mother and I planned it. I don't want to give up on her, but she's been gone a month. There's little hope she's lasted this long.

Silence. Then ANAKIN stands up.

OWEN: Where are you going?

ANAKIN: To find my mother.

PADME: No, Annie!

CLIEGG: She's daed, son. Accept it.

ANAKIN: I can feel her pain, and I will find her. I know she's alive.

ANAKIN turns abruptly.

EXT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, MOISTURE FARM - LATE DAY

ANAKIN stands looking across the desert. PADME comes running out of the homestead after him, followed by OWEN. ANAKIN turns to PADME.

ANAKIN: You are going to have to stay here. These are good people, Padme. You'll be safe.

OWEN: Take my speeder bike.

PADME: Anakin...

PADME hugs him. ANAKIN walks over to Owen's speeder bike, which is standing close by.

ANAKIN: I trust you'll watch over her, Owen.

OWEN: Don't worry.

ANAKIN swings onto the bike. The engine fires.

ANAKIN: I won't be long.

ANAKIN takes off across the desert. PADME watches him go.

EXT. SPACE, GEONOSIS

The red planet of Geonosis is circled by a large asteroid field that form rings. Jango Fett's ship appears, heading toward it.

INT. COCKPIT, FETT SHIP, SPACE, GEONOSIS

JANGO FETT grins at BOBA FETT.

JANGO FETT: Nearly there, son.

JANGO FETT guides he ship around the asteroids. Suddenly:

BOBA FETT: Dad, look!!

On the view screen, Obi-Wan's ship appears, chasing after them. JANGO FETT grabs the controls. They are thrown around as the ship plummets to try to lose OBI-WAN.

JANGO FETT: Hang on!

The ship goes into a power-climb. A GREAT SPACE DDOGFIGHT ensues between OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT.

EXT. SPACE, GEONOSIS

The ships flip, roll, and turn at incredible speed, didging, weaving and firing. They tumble from near misses. Hits fly off Obi-Wan's fighter as one of Jango's missiles gets through.

Finally, it seems as if OBI-WAN is getting the upper hand. JANGO FETT breaks off the fight and dives sharply. He maneuvers deftly between two huge asteroids.

In JANGO FETT'S COCKPIT, BOBA FETT flinches as asteroids pass very close by.

BOBA FETT: Dad! Watch out!

JANGO FETT: Stay calm, son. We'll be fine.
That Jedi won't be able to follow us through this.

But Obi-Wan ship dives into the asteroid belt after them.

IN OBI-WAN'S COCKPIT, his skill is pushed to the limit as he throws the ship from side to side, avoiding great rocks. Then a huge asteroid tumbles across his path. There seem no way he can avoid it. OBI-WAN fires a couple of aerial torpedoes. They streak toward the asteroid.

IN JANGO'S COCKPIT, they see the huge explosion as Obi-Wan's ship appears to smash into the asteroid.

BOBA FETT: Got him! Yeahhhhh!

JANGO FETT: We won't see him again.

BOBA FETT laughs. Jango Fett's ship emerges from the asteroid belt and heads down toward the planet of Geonosis.

EXT. TATOOINE, DESERT, JAWA CAMP - SUNSET

ANAKIN stands in the middle of a crowd of JAWAS. He asks them from directions. The JAWAS confer exicitedly, then the CHIEF JAWA points in a particular direction. ANAKIN gets on the bike and speeds off to where the JAWA pointed.

EXT. TATOOINE, DUNE SEA, CAMPFIRE - TWILIGHT

ANAKIN rides over a large dune toward a small flickering light in the distance.

He rides up and stops the bike in front of a campfire. There are bodies of THREE DEAD FARMERS lying beside the campfire. TWO EOPIES are thethered nearby, along with a burned and smoking speeder.

EXT. TATOOINE, LANDSCAPE (FULL MOON) - NIGHT

THREE DIFFERENT SHOTS. ANAKIN rids the speeder bike through three exotic landscapes. In one shot, he stops and looks down at some tracks. Then he starts up his speeder and rides off.

EXT. TATOOINE, DESERT, HOMESTEAD (FULL MOON) - NIGHT

The lights of the vaporators blink in the night sky. Somewhere close by, a night animal HOWLS.

EXT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, COURTYARD (FULL MOON) - NIGHT

PADME is pacing the courtyard restlessly. She stops, listening to the animal HOWLING nearby. She shivers slightly, then turns and goes into the garage at the side of the courtyard.

INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD - GARAGE (FULL MOON) - NIGHT

PADME stands looking at a speeder parked in the garage. Short silence. Then:

C-3PO: Please don't leave us, Miss Padme.
These people need your help.

THREEPIO is parked in a corner.

PADME: I'm not leaving, Threepio. I just can't sleep.

C-3PO: That's something I cannot relate to. As a Protocol Droid, I'm either active or inactive.
There's no in-between.

PADME: I guess you're lucky.

C-3PO: Do you really think so..? I suppose I shouldn't expect...

PADME: You're not happy here?

C-3PO: Oh, I'm not unhappy... and my masters here ar so kind I wouldn't wish to trouuble them, it's just... being like this...
well, it's embarrassing.

PADME: Being like what?

C-3PO: Naked. If you pardon the expression. You see, when Master Annie made me, he never quite found the time to give me any outer covering. It's so humiliating. How would you like it if you had to go around with all your circuits showing?

PADME: I guess I wouldn't like it at all.

C-3PO: Of course you wouldn't. Nobody would. It's simply not protocol.

PADME looks thoughtfully at a pile of spare parts and bits of metal and tools.

PADME: Maybe we can do something about it.

C-3PO: I don't think so. Only Master Annie...

PADME: Why not? They seem to have a box of old coverings here.

C-3PO: Oh? How observant of you, Miss Padme. Of course, I'm just not mechanically minded... if you see what I mean.

PADME picks up a piece of metal and holds it against him.

PADME: Let's see, if we put this...
here...

C-3PO: Ooooh! That's tickles.

PADME: You'll have to be quiet, Threepio.
Hold still, please.

EXT. SPACE, GEONOSIS RINGS

A huge chunk of rock tumbles slowly through the asteroid bely. CAMERA CLOSES, to discover Obi-Wan's Starship hidden in a blasted-out area on the pitted back side of the great rock.

INT. COCKPIT, JEDI FIGHTER, SPACE, GEONOSIS RINGS

OBI-WAN looks out toward Geonosis and sees in the distance a large fleet of Trade Federation Ships hidden among the asteroids. He starts the engines of his fighter.

Obi-Wan's Fighter moves out from the back side of the asteroid and heads away from the asteroid field, descending toward Geonosis.

EXT. GEONOSIS, LANDING AREA - NIGHT

Obi-Wan's ship skims across the top of a small mesa along the edge of a rocky ridge. He maneuvers under a rock overhang and lands. He gets out of the Fighter and walks onto the mesa. The wind whips at him. He looks around.

Geonosis is a red rock planet, featureless apart from buttes and mesas, and occasional tall stalagmites that stand out dramatically on the arid plains.

The night is quiet, except for an occasional WEIRD CRY. OBI-WAN checks his bearings, then heads away.

EXT. GEONOSIS, ROCK FACE TRAIL - NIGHT

OBI-WAN climbs a steep, narrow trail. Suddenly, a CRY is heard close by. OBI-WAN stumbles slightly. His foot slips on the edge, sending a stream of peblles skittering into the darkness.

OBI-WAN listens. Silence. He draws his lightsaber but does not ignite it.

He sets off again and works his way around a narrow corner, to confront a crouching MASSIFF (a dog-sized lizard) with slavering fangs! The beast leaps at him, and OBI-WAN ignites his lightsaber as the MASSIFF knocks him on his back. Its jaws open wide. OBI-WAN stabs the creature, throws it off of him, and jumps up.

A SECOND MASSIFF jumps from behind. OBI-WAN swings around and cuts it in half. The MASSIFF flies over the cliff, HOWLING. It plummets to its death hundreds of feet below.

EXT. TATOOINE, CLIFF (FULL MOON) - NIGHT

ANAKIN pulls up near the edge of a cliff. He gets off the bike and creeps to the edge. He looks over to see a Tusken camp in the oasis below. One of the huts at the edge of the camp has TWO TUSKEN GUARDS outside it.

EXT. TATOOINE, TUSKEN RAIDER CAMP, OASIS (FULL MOON) - NIGHT

ANAKIN creeps through the camp, working his way from hut to hut, flattening himself against the wall,s overhearing snatches of Tusken conversation from inside, using the shadows to him him until he arrives at the hut with the TWO GUARDS. They are sitting a short distance from the door. ANAKIN wriggles around the black. He takes out his lightsaber and cuts into the base of the wall.

INT. TUSKEN RAIDER HUTT - NIGHT

The lightsaber completes the hole in the wall. ANAKIN wriggles in. He pulls himself to his feet. There are candles everywhere.

A shaft of moonlight from a hole in the roof pierces the gloom of the hut. By its light, ANAKIN sees SHMI, hanging from a wooden frame in the middle of the hut.

He cuts her free, takes her into his arms, and lowers her gently to the ground. Her eyes are closed. Her face is bloodied. She has been 
terribly beaten. Anakin cradles her tenderly.

ANAKIN: Mom... Mom... Mom... 

SHMI'S eyelids flutter - and barely open. They are caked with blood.

SHMI: Annie...? Is it you?

SHMI'S eyes focus slowly. ANAKIN gives a little choking gasp.

ANAKIN: Im here, Mom. Youre safe. Hang on. Im going to get you out of here...

SHMI: Im so glad... to see you, Annie... Now... I am complete...

ANAKIN: Just stay with me, Mom. Im going to make you well again.
Everythings going to be fine.

SHMI: You look so handsome. My son...
my grown-up son. Im so proud of you, Annie... so proud... I missed you so much... I love...

SHMI dies. ANAKIN draws her to his breast. There is silence for a moment. ANAKIN lifts his head, listening for a moment, then he sits on the floor of the Tusken hut, cradling his dead mother in his arms.

EXT. GEONOSIS, ROCK FACE TRAIL - NIGHT

OBI-WAN arrives at the head of the trail. Far below, a flat plain stretches into the distance. He stop, peering into the darkness, where strange shapes loom indistinctly.

OBI-WAN takes a pair of electronic binoculars from his belt and puts them to his eyes. He sees a cluster of great towers like fantastic stalagmites rise from the plain below.

SLOW PAN with the binoculars, and suddenly a line of Battle Starships come into view. OBI-WAN touches the viewfinder. Between fifty and a hundred Federation Starships in near rows. Some are on platforms that are carrying the Starships diwn to an underground facility. Other platforms are rising to the surface. They carry THOUSANDS of BATTLE DROIDS that step off and file into the waiting ships. A fully loaded Starship takes off. OBI-WAN swings the binoculars upward, to see more Federation Starships.

EXT. TATOOINE, TUSKEN RAIDER CAMP, OASIS - DAWN

The pale light grows. Thin tendrils of smoke rise slowly in the cold, clear air. Somewhere an dog BARKS. An OLD WOMAN comes out of one of the huts. She carries a pail. She swirls it and tosses the dirty water onto the ground.

As she goes back inside the hut, a TUSKEN CHILD runs past, dragging a stick in the sand. The CHILD runs through the line of huts, turns a corner, and stops suddenly, staring at the bodies of the TWO TUSKEN GUARDS. Between them, ANAKIN stands outside the hut door. His face is a grim mask. The CHILD stares, then there is a FLASH OF LIGHT as Anakins lightsaber switches on.

EXT. GEONOSIS, LANDING AREA - NIGHT

OBI-WAN comes running back to his ship and climbs into the cockpit. He settles into his seat. His ARFOUR DROID beeps a happy greeting. OBI-WAN switches on his comlink.

OBI-WAN: "Guiding light" to "old folks home."

EXT. CORUSCANT, REPUBLIC EXECUTIVE BUILDING - DAY

LOW ANGLE. A line of reflecting pools with splashing fountains flanked by statues on each side leads to the main entrance to the awesome building.

INT. CORUSCANT, CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE

A hologram of OBI-WAN flickers in front of a group, made up of Jedi (YODA, MACE WINDU, and KI-ADI-MUNDI) and Senators (BAIL ORGANA, ASK AAK, LUMINARA, and JAR JAR). PALPATINE and MAS AMEDDA are in the middle of the group, watching with growing concern.

OBI-WAN: ...Starships from the Trade Federation and the Commerce Guilds are taking deliveries of battle droids from the foundries on Geonosis.

BAIL ORGANA: That's outrageous! The treaty forbids the Trade Federation from building up an army. What are they doing?!

OBI-WAN: The droid foundry seems to be working at full capacity. I am going to go down and investigate.
I will bring Jango Fett back home for interrogation.

PALPATINE: Those Geonosian foundries are part of the Techno Union. We will call in their representatives and ask them a few very pointed questions.

OBI-WAN: One more thing. Jango mentioned he was recruited by someone named Darth Tyranus. Any idea who that might be?

YODA: With the forename Darth, a Sith he must be.

MACE WINDU: Our missing apprentice. They are playing their hand at last.

OBI-WAN: Do you believe he could be the mysterious Sido-Dyas, who made the deal for the clone army?

YODA: Perhaps too many pieces are missing from this puzzle, there are.

MACE WINDU: Be careful, Obi-Wan. This investigation is becoming less than routine. Do you need help?

OBI-WAN: Let me see if I can figure out what's going on first.

The hologram of OBI-WAN fades off. PALPATINE stares at the spot where the hologram was in disbelief.

BAIL ORGANA: The Commerce Guilds are preparing for war... there can be no doubt of that.

PALPATINE: Count Dooku must have made a treaty with them.

MACE WINDU: We must stop them soon before they're fully ready.

SENATOR ASK AAK: The debate is over, we need that clone army now!

BAIL ORGANA: Unfortunately, the debate is not over. The Senate will never be able to approve the use of that army before the separatists attack.

Mas Amedda, who had been silent up until now suddenly speaks up.

MAS AMEDDA: This is a crisis! If the Senate votes the Chancellor emergency powers, he could approve the use of the army in a minute.

PALPATINE: Please, please, I don't wish to have emergency powers. That's too extreme a solution. It's akin to a dictatorship. We must rely on the Jedi. Master Yoda, how many are available to go to Geonosis?

MACE WINDU and YODA look at one another.

YODA: Two Hundred,... less or more.

BAIL ORGANA: With all due respect for the Jedi Order, two hundred will be no match for hundreds of thousands of battle droids.

MACE WINDU: Patience. We should wait for Obi- Wan to report back. We don't know that Count Dooku has made a treaty with the Corporate Alliance, it's speculation.

SENATOR ASK AAK: But we must prepare for the worst.
I'm going to propose a motion granting emergency powers to the Chancellor at the next session. We must not wait!

PALPATINE: Out of the question, Senator! You and I are too closely aligned.
The issue will become partisan and debates will begin. The proposal must come from a neutral source.

MAS AMEDDA: If only Senator Amidala were here.

JAR JAR steps forward from the back of the group.

JAR JAR: Supreme Chancellor... my august colleagues, I would be proud to propose the motion in question.
This is a grave situation, and I'm sure Senator Amidala, and the Queen of Naboo would agree.

SENATOR ASK AAK: Thank you, Representative Binks.

Silence. Then PALPATINE sighs deeply.

PALPATINE: If called upon, I will serve. But it will be the saddest day of my life.

EXT. TATOOINE, DESERT, HOMESTEAD MOISTURE FARM - DAY

All is quiet. BERU comes out of the house. She goes to a moisture line and starts to draw water.

INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, GARAGE - DAY

PADME fixes the last piece of covering onto THREEPIO.

PADME: There!

PADME stands back. OWEN is with her. They look at THREEPIO. He isn't the golden figure we know because PADME has had to use whatever stuff she could findin the garage. He is multi-coloured in several textures, but he is complete.

C-3PO: Um. How do I look?

OWEN: Great! You look perfect.

C-3PO: Perfect? Oh, Miss Padme, I'm so happy!
(extending his hand to shake hers)
Oh, pardon me.

THREEPIO drops his hand and bows formally.

THREEPIO: (continuing)
Thank you.

He forgets formality and hugs her. PADME hugs him back, laughing.

C-3PO: (continuing)
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!

OWEN: (grinning)
Well, Padme, I think he should be yours from now on... I know that is what my Mom would want.

C-3PO: Oh, my!

Then suddenly, from outside:

BERU (V.O.)
Come topside, everybody! He's back! He's back!
PAGE 83

PAGE 84

PAGE 85

PAGE 86

PAGE 87

PAGE 88
 NT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, GARAGE - DAY

A rough hologram of OBI-WAN is projected onto the garage by ARTOO. ANAKIN, PADME and THREEPIO watch the flickering image.

OBI-WAN: ...Alliance have pledged their armies to Count Dooku and are forming an... Wait!... ah...
attack... I don't... make it...
aaaggghhh!

The hologram cuts off. ANAKIN jumps up, agitated.

ANAKIN: I'm going after him!

PADME: I thought the first thing he said was to retransmit his message to Coruscant.

ANAKIN: Yeah, you're right, you're right.

EXT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, MOISTURE FARM - LATE DAY

ANAKIN, PADME, ARTOO and THREEPIO leave the homestead, waving to CLIEGG, OWEN and BERU as they go into the desert.

INT. COCKPIT, NABOO STARSHIP - SUNSET

ANAKIN sits down in the cockpit with PADME. THREEPIO is behind them. ARTOO is beside him. They are watching a hologram of MACE WINDU.

MACE WINDU: We will deal with Count Dooku. The most important thing for you, Anakin, is to stay where you are.
Protect the Senator at all costs.
That is your priority.

ANAKIN: Understood, Master.

The hologram switches off. PADME is looking at the readout on the ship's control panel.

PADME: They'll never get there in time to save him. They have to come half way across the galaxy. Look, Geonosis is less than a parsec away.

PADME starts to hit buttons and flick switches. ANAKIN puts a hand over hers, stopping her. She stares at him.

ANAKIN: If he's still alive.

PADME: Annie, are you just going to sit here and let him die?? He's your friend... your mentor...

ANAKIN: ...He's like my father, but you heard Master Windu. He gave me strict orders to stay here.

PADME: He gave you strict orders to protect me...

PADME pulls her hand free and flicks more switches. The engines fire.

PADME: (continuing)
...and I'm going to save Obi-Wan.
So if you plan to protect me, you will have to come along.

ANAKIN grins and takes the controls.

EXT. TATOOINE, BLUFF OVERLOOKING HOMESTEAD - SUNSET

The Naboo Starship rises from the bluff and zooms away.

EXT. CORUSCANT, JEDI TEMPLE - DAY

TWO HUNDRED JEDI KNIGHTS are assembling outside the huge center of the Jedi Order.

INT. CORUSCANT, JEDI TEMPLE, COUNCIL CHAMBER - DAY

The JEDI COUNCIL are assembled as MACE WINDU makes his plea.

MACE WINDU: The longer we wait, the stronger Dooku's armies become. We cannot wait for the Senate to make up its mind about granting the Chancellor emergency powers, in order to be able to use that clone army... We have the authority to go now. We must go now.

All of the JEDI COUNCIL nod their approval.

YODA: Agreed, Master Windu. Two hundred Jedi send. Enough, let's hope they are.

INT. CORUSCANT, MAIN SENATE CHAMBER - DAY

Inside the great rotunda, the UPROAR is even louder. Opposing SENATOES yell furiously at one another.

MAS AMEDDA: Order! Order!!

Finally, the uproar dies.

PALPATINE: In the regrettable absence of Senator Amidala, the chair recognises Senior Representative of Naboo, Jar Jar Binks.

Amid the conflicting storm of CHEERS AND BOOS, JAR JAR, with TWO GUNGAN AIDES, floats on his pod to the middle of the vast space. He looks at PALPATINE nervously. PALPATINE nods. JAR JAR clears his throat.

JAR JAR: Senators, dellow felagates...

Laughter. Jeers. JAR JAR blushes.

MAS AMEDDA: Order! The Senate will accord the Representative the courtesy of a hearing!

Comparative quiet. JAR JAR grips the edge of the podium.

JAR JAR: In response to the direct threat to the Republic from the Confederacy of Independent Systems, I propose that the Senate gives immediate emergency powers to the Supreme Chancellor.

Uproar. JAR JAR looks a little sheepish.

JAR JAR: (continuing)
Who can deny these are exceptional times? Exceptional times demand exceptional measures!
Exceptional measures demand exceptional men!

ORN FREE TAA: We won't support a dictator.

SHOUTS of agreement.

JAR JAR: That is the sentiment every one of us agrees with! And when the shadow of war has dispersed and the bright day of liberty has dawned once again, the power we now give to the Supreme Chancellor will be gladly, and swiftly returned. Out ancient liberties will be restored to us, burnished even more brightly than before!

Brief silence, then a rolling wave of APPLAUSE. JAR JAR beams and bows.

PALPATINE rises.

PALPATINE: It is with great reluctance that I have agreed to this calling. I love democracy... I love the Republic. The fact that this crisis is demanding I be given absolute power to tule over you is evident. But I am mild by nature and have no desire to destroy the democratic process. The power you give me I will lay down when this crisis has abated, I promise you.
And all I ask in return is when my current term of office is over, you allow me to reture and live out my life in peace.

MAS AMEDDA: We shall proceed to the vote. All those in favor of granting emergency powers to the Supreme Chancellor, signal ate at this time... those opposed?

EXT. SPACE

The Naboo Starship heads toward the rings of Geonosis.

EXT. GEONOSIS, LANDING AREA

The Naboo Starship lands.

INT. COCKPIT, NAOO STARFIGHTER - DAY

ANAKIN switches off the engines. ARTOO and THREEPIO are in the navigation area of the cockpit. PADME is in the co-pilot's seat. She gets up.

ANAKIN: Hey, where are you going?

PADME: To find Obi-Wan.

ANAKIN gets up and goes over to her.

ANAKIN: No! You're not!

He grabs her arm.

PADME: Let go of me!

ANAKIN: I'm not letting you go out there.
It's too dangerous.

PADME: What?!?

ANAKIN: It's my job to protect you. I said it's too dangerous. You're not going, and that's final!

PADME: Don't you give me orders, Annie!
I'm a Senator of the Galactic Republic. You have no authority to contain me, restrain me, or direct me! You remember your place, young man.
(standing up)
Now you can come along and protect me or stay here. It's up to you.

PADME storms out of the cockpit of the Naboo Starfighter. ANAKIN stands scratching his head, then follows.

ARTOO BEEPS and WHISTLES.

C-3PO: Yes, it is, Artoo. Most confusing. One moment they're generating a pleasant mutual attraction and the next, waves of violent hostility. Even though I'm programmed to understand them, I doubt if I ever shall.

ARTOO WHISTLES a plaintive sigh.

INT. GEONOSIS, CORRIDORS - DAY

ANAKIN and PADME enter the stalagmite city. They stop, looking around in wonder at the emptiness.

PADME: (in a low voice)
It's empty!

They start forward. As they pass, the surface of the pillars seems to pulse slowly and move. High above WINGED CREATURES grow from the pillars and detach themselves.

INT. GEONOSIS, CENTRAL SQUARE - DAY

ANAKIN and PADME cross the square, reaching the middle. They stop suddenly as FOUR GEONOSIANS grabs them. ANAKIN reaches for his lightsaber.

PADME: Wait!

TWENTY WINGED GEONOSIANS carrying weapons alight on the flagstones in front of them.

The GEONOSIANS part, and COUNT DOOKU appears. He bows courteously.

COUNT DOOKU: Senator Amidala, I've heard so much about you.

PADME: Count Dooku, I assume.

COUNT DOOKU: I'm delighted to meet you at last. We have a great deal to discuss, Senator. I hope you can keep your young Jedi under control.

PADME: Don't worry he's housebroken.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM (GEONOSIS) - DAY

COUNT DOOKU sits at a large conference table with PADME on the far 
side. ANAKIN stands behind her with FOUR GEONOSIANS GUARDS standing behind him. JANGO FETT stands behind COUNT DOOKU, and SIX GEONOSIAN GUARDS stand behind him.

PADME: You are holding a Jedi Knight, Obi- Wan Kenobi. I am formally requesting you turn him over to me, now.

DOOKU: He has been convicted of espionage, Senator, and will be executed. In just a few hours, I believe.

COUNT DOOKU smiles.

PADME: He is an officer of the Republic.
You can't do that.

DOOKU: We don't recognise the Republic here, Senator. But if Naboo were to join our Alliance, I could easily hear your plea for clemency.

ANAKIN grabs his lightsaber but doesn't turn it on.

PADME: And if I don't join your rebellion, I assume this Jedi with me will also die?

DOOKU: I don't wish to make you to join our cause against your will, Senator, but you are a rational, honest representative of your people and I assume you want to do what's in their best interest.
Aren't you fed up with the corruption, the bureaucrats, the hypocrisy of it all?.. Aren't you? Be honest, Senator.

PADME: The ideals are still alive, Count, even if the institution is failing.

DOOKU: You believe in the same ideals we believe in! The same ideals we are striving to make prominent.

PADME: If what you say is true, you should stay in the Republic and help Chancellor Palpatine put things right.

DOOKU: The Chancellor means well, M'Lady but he is incompetent. He has promised to cut the bureaucracy, but the bureaucrats are stronger than ever, no? Senator, the Republic cannot be fixed. It is time to start over. The democratic process in the Republic is a sham, a shell game played on the voters. It will not be long before the cult of greed, called the Republic, will lose even the pretext of democracy and freedom.

PADME: I cannot believe that. I will not forsake all I have honoured and worked for and betray the Republic. I know of your treaties with the Trade Federation, the Commerce Guilds, and the others, Count. What is happening here is not government that has been bought out by business... it's business becoming government!

DOOKU: Are you willing to betray your Jedi friends? Without your co-operation I can do nothing to stop their execution.

PADME: What is to happen to me? Am I to be executed also?

DOOKU: I wouldn't think of such an offence. But, there are individuals who have a strong interest in your demise, M'lady.
It has nothing to do with politics, I'm afraid. It's purely personal, and they have already paid great sums to have you assassinated. I'm sure they will push hard to have you included in the executions. I'm sorry but if you are not going to co-operate, I must turn you over to the Geonosians for justice. I've done all I can for you.

JANGO FETT moves over to ANAKIN.

JANGO FETT: I'll take that weapon.

ANAKIN hesitates.

DOOKU: You may cause a lot of bloodshed, my young Jedi, but you will not escape.

PADME: Anakin...

ANAKIN hands his lightsaber over to JANGO FETT.

INT. GEONOSIS, HIGH AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY

ANAKIN and PADME are standing in the centre of what looks like a courtroom. Seated before them in a tall, boxed-off area is POGGLE THE LESSER, Archduke of Geonosis. He is accompanied by his underling, SUN RIT. Off to one side the Separatist Senators PO NUDU, TESSEK, and TOONBUCK TOORA. Next to them are the Commerce Dignitaries, SHU MAI, NUTE GUNRAY, PASSEL ARGENTE, WAT TAMBOR and SAN HILL of the Intergalactic Bank Clan. Along the wall about a HUNDRED GEONOSIANS wait for a verdict.

SUN RIT: You have been charged and found guilty of Espionage.

POGGLE: Do you have anything to say before your sentence is carried out?

PADME: You are committing an act of war, Archduke. I hope you are prepared for the consequences.

POGGLE laughs. COUNT DOOKU simply smiles.

POGGLE: We build weapons, Senator... that is our business! Of course we're prepared!

NUTE GUNRAY: Get on with it. Carry out the sentence. I want to see her suffer.

POGGLE: Your other Jedi friend is waiting for you, Senator. Take them to the arena!

FOUR GUARDS take hold of PADME and ANAKIN. They are escorted out of the chamber to the sounds of chuckling.

INT. GEONOSIS TUNNEL TO EXECUTION ARENA - DAY

In the gloomy tunnel, ANAKIN and PADME are tossed into an open cart. The murmur of a vast crowd is heard offscreen. GUARDS extend their arms along the framework and tie them so that they stand facing each other.

The DRIVER gets up onto his seat.

ANAKIN: Don't be afraid.

PADME: I'm not afraid to die. I've been dying a little bit each day since you came back into my life.

ANAKIN: What are you talking about?

PADME: I love you.

ANAKIN: You love me?! I thought we decided not to fall in love. That we would be forced to live a lie.
That it would destroy our lives...

PADME: I think our lives are about to be destroyed anyway. My love for you is a puzzle, Annie, for which I have no answers. I can't control it... and now I don't care. I truly, deeply love you, and before we die I want you to know.

PADME leans toward ANAKIN. By straining hard, it is just possible for 
their lips to meet. They kiss.

ANAKIN: I have no desire to be cured of this love either. Long or short, I vow to spend the rest of my life with you.

They kiss again.

The DRIVER cracks his whip over the ORRAY harnessed between the shafts. The cart jerks forward. Suddenly, there isa HUGE ROAR and blinding sunlight as they emerge into the arena

INT. GEONOSIS, EXECUTION ARENA - DAY

The great stadium is packed with tier upon tier of yelling GEONOSIANS. The cart trundles to the center, where OBI-WAN is chained to one of four upright posts thatare three feet in diameter. The cart stops. PADME and ANAKIN are taken down, dragged to posts, and chained to them. PADME is in the center.

OBI-WAN: I was beginning to wonder if you had gotten my message.

ANAKIN: I retransmitted it as you requested, Master. Then we decided to come and rescue you.

OBI-WAN: It looks like you're going a good job so far.

Their arms are pulled high above their heads, and the cart drives away. There is another ROAR as POGGLE THE LESSER, COUNT DOOKU, NUTE GUNRAY, THE FETTS and DIGNITARIES arrive in the archducal box and take their places.

SUN RIT: The felons before you have been convicted of espionage against the Sovereign System of Geonosis.
Their sentence of death is to be carried out in this public arena henceforth.

The crowd ROARS and CHEERS. In the box, POGGLE THE LESSER rises. The crowd becomes quiet.

POGGLE: Let the executions begin!

The crowd goes wild.

ANAKIN: I have a bad feeling about this.

From different gates around the arena, THREE MONSTERS are driven in. One is a REEK (bull-like), one is a NEXU (lion-like), and one is an ACKLAY (a kind of dino-lobster). They are driven in by PICADORS carrying long spears and riding ORRAYS. The PICADORS poke the MONSTERS toward the center, then retire to the perimeter.

The MONSTERS toss their heads, looking around, ROARING or SCREECHING. Then they catch sight of the THREE CAPTIVES and start moving toward them.

OBI-WAN: Take the one the left. I'll take the one on the right.

ANAKIN: What about Padme?

PADME has turned around and is pulling herself up by the chain to the top of the post. Within a moment, she is standing on top of it, trying to pull the chain free.

OBI-WAN: It looks like she's already on top of things.

The REEK charges ANAKIN. He jumps up, and the beast hits the post hard. ANAKIN lands onto its back, wrapping part of his chain around its horn. The REEK backs off, shaking its head angrily, which tears the chain from the post

OBI-WAN ducks around the post as the ACKLAY charges. It knocks the post flat, sending OBI-WAN sprawling. The ACKLAY crunches the post between its claws, freeing the chain. OBI-WAN leaps up and runs towards ONE of the PICADORS. The ACKLAY taks off after him.

The NEXU arrives at PADME'S post and rears on its hind legs. One top, PADME struggles to tear the chain free. The NEXU ROARS, displaying wicked, dripping fangs.

In the archducal box, NUTE GUNRAY beams and rubs his hands.

In the arena, OBI-WAN runs at the PICADOR. The ORRAY rears up. OBI-WAN grabs the PICADOR'S long spear and pole vaults over him. The chasing ACKLAY smashes into the ORRAY. It goes down. The PICADOR tumbles onto the sand, where he is grabbed by the ACKLAY and crunched.

ANAKIN's REEK starts to buck. It charges around the arena with ANAKIN hanging on for dear life. He whirls the free length of chain around his head and casts it into the REEK's mouth. Its jaws clamp hard on the chain. ANAKIN yanks hard on the chain, turning the REEK, beginning to ride it.

The NEXU's claws dig deep into the post. The cat-like creature reaches the top of the post and takes a swipe at PADME. She turns and the claw barely catches her shirt ripping it off, leaving superficial claw marks across her back. She hits the creature with her chain and it backs off down the pole. Then, PADME jumps off the post into the air. She swings around on the chain and whacks the beast hard on the head with both her feet. It tumbles back onto the sand.

In the archducal box:

NUTE GUNRAY: Foul!! She can't do that... shoot her or something!

In the arena, OBI-WAN runs out from behind the fallen ORRAY and throws the spear at the ACKLAY, hitting it in the neck. It lets out a terrible SCREECH and turns on him. The NEXU springs up and makes to leap up at PADME again. She finally manages to work the chain loose. ANAKIN comes charging up on the REEK.

ANAKIN: You okay?

PADME: (nods, gasping)
Sure! Well, sort of.

ANAKIN: Jump!!!

The NEXU springs. PADME leaps from the top of the post to land on the REEK in front of ANAKIN. He hauls her upright. The REEK charges away, around the arena. The NEXU bounds after it. The REEK passes the wounded ACKLAY. The NEXU smells the blood and turns aside to attack the ACKLAY. The TWO MONSTERS fight. The crowd GROANS and BOOS.

In the archducal box, NUTE GUNRAY turns angrily to COUNT DOOKU.

NUTE GUNRAY: This isn't how it's supposed to be! Jango, finish her off.

COUNT DOOKU motions for the bounty hunter to ptay put. BOBA FETT is enjoying the spectacle.

COUNT DOOKU: (smiling enigmatically)
Patiece, Viceroy... she will die.
Maybe this is the way it's supposed to end.

OBI-WAN runs and jumps on the back of the REEK behind ANAKIN. Across the arena, the NEXU, having chewed up the ACKLAY, starts to advance toward them.

INT. COCKPIT, NABOO STARSHIP - DAY

ARTOO BEEPS

C-3PO: Yes, it has been rather a long time. Do you suppose something's happened to them?

ARTOO BEEPS and WHISTLES.

C-3PO: (continuing)
Danger? Oh no, I shouldn't think so. It looks a very dull planet to me. They should be back shortly. Just stop worrying, Artoo.

EXT. GEONOSIS, EXECUTION ARENA - DAY

In the archducal box, amid the uproar, COUNT DOOKU feels a tap on his shoulder. He turns to see MACE WINDU standing behind him. COUNT DOOKU masks his surprise elegantly as he surveys the arena and sees JEDI KNIGHTS standing at every entrance and exit.

COUNT DOOKU: Master Windu, how pleasant of you to join us. You're just in time for the moment of truth. I would think these two new boys of yours could use a little more training.

MACE WINDU: Sorry to disappoint you, Dooku.
This party's over.

MACE WINDU signals, and at stategic places around the arena there are sudden flashes of light as about ONE HUNDRED JEDI switch on their lightsabers. The crowd is suddenly silent. COUNT DOOKU'S lips curl in slight amusement.

COUNT DOOKU: (to Mace Windu)
Brave, but stupid, my old Jedi friend. You're impossibly outnumbered.

MACE WINDU: I don't think so. One Jedi has to be worth a hundred Geonosians.

COUNT DOOKU looks around the great theater. His smile grows.

COUNT DOOKU: It wasn't the Geonosians I was thinking about. How well do you think one Jedi will hold up against a thousand battle droids?

COUNT DOOKU signals. THOUSANDS OF DROIDS start to pour into all parts of the arena.

MACE WINDU draws his lightsaber, JANGO FETT draws his guns and fires at MACE WINDU, who deflects the shots. JANGO FETT and MACE WINDU jump into the arena, where they fight. BOBA FETT wacthes his Dad and the Jedi Master fight. The battle beginss. GEONOSIANS fly away everywhere. DROIDS fire at JEDI, who deflect the bolts and cult down the DROIDS. The GEONOSIAN TROOPS fire ray guns that are more difficult for the JEDI to deflect.

The REEK and the NEXU are spooked by the battle. The REEK bucks the riders off its back and stampedes around the arena, trampling DROIDS and JEDI that have moved into its path. PADME picks up a discarded pistol and joins the fight. SEVERAL JEDI run to the center of the arena and toss lightsabers to OBI-WAN and ANAKIN.

Among the crowd, JEDI cut down swaths of GEONOSIANS and DROIDS. On the sand, JEDI fight, attacking DROIDS. OBI0WAN and ANAKIN swing their lightsabers, cutting DROIDS in half. PADME blasts away at DROIDS and GEONOSIANS.

INT. COCKPIT, NABOO STARSHIP

ARTOO whistles.

C-3PO: I don't hear anything.
(Artoo beeps)
You're scaring me! Stop imagining things!

EXT. GEONOSIS, EXECUTION ARENA - DAY

Among the tiers, JEDI are slowly being driven back. They have killed heaps of GEONOSIANS and have kncoked out piles of DROIDS, but sheer numbers are telling. Individual JEDI are being cut down or blasted/ The rest are retreating into the arena.

ANAKIN and PADME are back-to-back, fighting DROIDS and flying GEONOSIANS. MACE WINDU fights fiercely with JANGO FETT. Finally, the bounty hunter falls. His helmet goes flying, bouncing down the steps, tumbling and rolling, kicked here and there by random feet. The bounty hunter's body falls to the ground.

MACE WINDU runs to the center of the arena and fights back-to-back with OBI-WAN, as they swipe and mangle DROIDS.

OBI-WAN: Someone's got to - shut down - these droids.

MACE WINDU: Don't worry! It's being - taken care of!

EXT. GEONOSIS, FEDERATION STARSHIP - DAY

KI-ADI-MUNDI leads a raiding party of about TWENTY JEDI through the lines of parked Battle Starships. They cut a swath through masses of DROIDS until they arrive at the Command Starship. Some JEDI fall. The rest cut their way up the ramps and into the Command Ship.

INT. COMMAND FEDERATION STARSHIP, CORRIDORS - DAY

KI-ADI-MUNDI and teh surviving JEDI fight their way through the corridors of the Command Ship, deflecting laser bolts, slicing DROIDS.

INT. COMMAND FEDERATION STARSHIP, CONTROL BRIDGE - DAY

THEY burst onto the bridge and chop down the COMMAND DROIDS. The NEIMOIDIANS flee in all directions. KE-ADI-MUNDI leans over the control panel. He locates the illuminated master switch and punches down on it. It goes dark. Instantly, all the DROIDS on the Starship and all the DROIDS in the arena FREEZE!

There is a moment of stunned silence, then the JEDI CHEER. One the bridge, PLO KOON claps KI-ADI-MUNDI on the back.

PLO KOON: We've done it! Now we have a chance!

Suddenly, there is a harsh BEEPING SOUND. All the DROIDS on the Starship and all the DROIDS in the arena start fighting again! KI-ADI-MUNDI stares in disbelief and dismay.

KI-ADI-MUNDI: The system's off but they're still active. That's a new feature. They are independent of the control system.

EXT. GEONOSIS, EXECUTION ARENA - DAY

MACE WINDU, OBI-WAN, ANAKIN, PADME and an exhausted group of about TWENTY JEDI stand in the center of the arena surrounded by a ring of BATTLE DROIDS. The bloodied sand around them is strewn with the bodies of DEAD GEONOSIANS, SHATTERED DROIDS and JEDI.

At the foot of some steps, BOBA FETT finds his father's battered helmet. He picks it up.

KI-ADI-MUNDI and the SURVIVORS from the raiding party are herded into the arena by SUPERDROIDS. From the encircling tiers above, THOUSANDS OF BATTLE DROIDS level their weapons menacingly.

In the archducal box, COUNT DOOKU lifts his hand. The DROIDS lower their weapons. The COUNT calls out to the JEDI.

COUNT DOOKU: Master Windu!

Silence.

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing)
You have fought gallantly. Worthy of recognition in the history archives of the Jedi Order. Now it is finished.
(pauses briefly)
Surrender - and your lives will be 
spared.

MACE WINDU: We will not be hostages for you to barter with Dooku.

COUNT DOOKU: Then, I'm sorry, old friend. You will have to be destroyed.

The DROIDS raise their weapons. ANAKIN and PADME clasps hands tightly. COUNT DOOKU raises his hand to give the order to fire. PADME looks up suddenlt and whispers to ANAKIN.

PADME: Look!

Above, six Gunships are descending fast through the open area in the arena ceiling. They land in a cluster around the handful of JEDI. CLONE TROOPERS spill out and start firing at the DROIDS. There is a hellstorm of laserfire that bounces off the laser shields created by the Gunships. YODA appears at the door of one of the Gunships.

YODA: Come on - hurry! Hurry!

The SURVIVING JEDI dash to the Gunships and scramble in. MACE WINDU hangs on tight as the Gunship, firing all its weapons, rises out of the arena up and over the topmost rim.

EXT. GEONOSIS, TERRAIN OUTSIDE EXECUTION ARENA - DAY

The massed lines of parked Federation Starships and the DROIDS surrounding the arena, are themselves surrounded by thousands of Republic Starships, disgorging TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CLONE TROOPERS. Beyond, more Republic Starships are landing and spewing out troops.

INT. GUNSHIP NUMBER ONE - DAY

MACE WINDU stares at the incredible sight.

YODA: More battalions to the left.
Encircle them we must, then divide.

The CLONE TROOPERS open fire with artillery. EXPLOSIONS wreck the parked Battle Starships. CLONE TROOPERS advance, firing at the massed DROIDS. FIGHTER DROIDS fly overhead, exchanging fire with the Gunships and JEDI fighters.

INT. COCKPIT, NABOO STARSHIP - DAY

THREEPIO and ARTOO see flashes outside of the ship, exploding everywhere.

C-3PO: I'm sure I heard something, this time. Didn't you? It's probably just a celebration

ARTOO lets out an EXHAUSTED BLEEP.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD, GEONOSIS LANDSCAPE - DAY

Gunship #2 skims the battlefield, firing down, deflecting answering fire from the droids.

INT. GUNSHIP NUMBER TWO - DAY

OBI-WAN, ANAKIN and PADME are at the open sides of the Gunship. CLONES fire down at the DROIDS below.

The Gunship slows, circling over a droid gun-emplacement. It blasts it, but suddenly the Gunship is rocked by a near miss. It lurches violently.

OBI-WAN: Hold on! Look over there...

Through the other side of the Gunship, they see a Geonosian Speeder racing past. In the open cockpit is the unmistakable figure of COUNT DOOKU.

ANAKIN: It's Dooku, go after him!

The PILOT starts to comply, but... there is a HUGE BLASTS, the ship lurches on its side, and PADME tumbles out.

ANAKIN: (continuing)
Padme!!!

ANAKIN stares down in horror as PADME hits thr ground below.

ANAKIN: (continuing; to pilot)
Put the ship down! Down!

OBI-WAN: No! Forget her. We have to go after Dooku.

ANAKIN: No we're not!! Land this ship!

OBI-WAN: Don't let your personal feelings get in the way. We've got a job to do.

Below, PADME hauls herself to her feet and waves for them to go after DOOKU.

ANAKIN: I don't care!.. Go back.

OBI-WAN: Anakin! She's all right! Look.

ANAKIN stares out to see PADME rescued by CLONE TROOPERS.

OBI-WAN: (continuing)
Follow that speeder!

On the ground, PADME looks up at Gunship #2 as it speeds away after Count Dooku. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN follow the speeder to a Geonosian tower. The speeder decsends rapidly; the Gunship follows.

Count Dooku's speeder parks outside the tower; the Gunship parks next to it. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN leap down and run inside the tower.

INT. GEONOSIS, SECRET HANGER TOWER - LATE DAY

COUNT DOOKU throws switches on a control panel. His Interstellar Sail Ship is guarded by a SQUAD OF SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. The doors of the exit-port slide open.

DROID CAPTAIN: Your Excellency!

COUNT DOOKU turns as OBI-WAN and ANAKIN run in through the hanger doors. They draw their lightsabers. The DROIDS raise their weapons.

COUNT DOOKU: That won't be necessary, Captain.
Stand down. And leave them to me.

The DROIDS lower their weapons and back off to the walls. COUNT DOOKU looks at OBI-WAN and ANAKIN with slight amusement.

OBI-WAN: (to Anakin)
We move in together - you slowly on the...

ANAKIN: I'm taking him now!

OBI-WAN: Anakin, no!

ANAKIN: You'll pay for all the Jedi you've killed today, Dooku.

ANAKIN charges across the open space at COUNT DOOKU, who smiles faintly, watching him come. ANAKIN raises his lightsaber. At the last moment, COUNT DOOKU thrusts out an arm, and ANAKIN is lifted up, hurled across the room, and slammed into the opposite wall. He slumps to the foot of the wall, semi-conscious. COUNT DOOKU moves toward OBI-WAN

COUNT DOOKU: Kenobi, isn't it? As you can see, my Jedi powers are far beyond yours. Now, back down.

OBI-WAN: I don't think so.

OBI-WAN lifts his lightsaber. COUNT DOOKU smiles.

COUNT DOOKU: Ah, but if I must.

COUNT DOOKU draws his lightsaber. He and OBI-WAN start to circle each other.

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing)
I have spent the last ten years learning to use the power of the Dark Side. It gives me infinitely greater power.

OBI-WAN: You will have to prove it.

OBI-WAN comes in fast, swinging at COUNT DOOKU'S head. DOOKU parries the cut easily. As they fight, it quickly becomes clear that DOOKU is the complete swordsman - elegant, graceful, classical - a master of the old style.

COUNT DOOKU: Grand Master Kenobi, you disappoint me. Yoda holds you in such high esteem.

COUNT DOOKU parried another cut.

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing)
Surely you can do better...?
(parries)
No, I'm surprised. Has Jedi swordsmanship degenerated so quickly, or are you trying to make fun of me?
(cuts)
Which is it?

COUNT DOOKU thrusts. OBI-WAN steps back quickly, panting for breath.

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing)
come, come, Master Kenobi. Put me out of my misery.

OBI-WAN takes a deep breath, gets a fresh grip on his lightsaber and comes in again. For a moment, he drives COUNT DOOKU back. Then Dooku's superior skill begins to tell again, and he forces OBI-WAN to retreat.

COUNT DOOKU increases the tempo of his attack. OBI-WAN is pushed to the limit to defend himself. DOOKU presses. His lightsaber flashes.

OBI-WAN is wounded in the shoulder, then the thigh. He stumbles back against the wall, trips, and falls. His lightsaber goes skittering across the floor.

COUNT DOOKU raises his lightsaber. OBI-WAN looks up helplessly. Dooku's lightsaber flashes down and CLASHES against - Anakin's lightsaber! COUNT DOOKU and ANAKIN stare eyeball to eyeball.

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing)
That's brave of you, boy - but foolish. I would have thought you'd have learnt your lesson.

ANAKIN: I'm a slow learner.

And ANAKIN charges at COUNT DOOKU. The force of his attack catches the Count slightly off balance. Anakin's lightsaber flashes. COUNT DOOKU draws back, putting a hand to his arm. He takes the hand away and looks at the smear of blood whee Anakin has nicked him.

COUNT DOOKU: You have unusual powers, young Padawan. But not enought to save you this time.

ANAKIN: Don't bet on it!

OBI-WAN: Anakin!

OBI-WAN uses the Force to catch his lightsaber and he tosses it to ANAKIN. With TWO LIGHTSABERS, ANAKIN attacks. COUNT DOOKU parries and ripostes. It is no contest. ANAKIN is driven back against the wall. He loses one lightsaber. Finally COUNT DOOKU, in one flashing move, sends Anakin's arm, cut at the elbow, flying still gripping his lightsaber. ANAKIN drops to the ground in agony. COUNT DOOKU draws himself up to deliver the coup de grace.

Suddenly, the great doors slide open. The DROIDS turn fast, raising their weapons. Through the thick smoke, emerges the heroic figure of YODA. He stops on the smoke-filled threashold, FOUR DROIDS lined up on either side of him, guns pointed.

Before the DROIDS can get off a shot, YODA raises his hand, and the DROIDS are flung against the far walls and crash to the floor in heaps of smoking metal.

Silence. COUNT DOOKU steps away from ANAKIN to face the Jedi Grand Master. His lightsaber whirls in a formal salute.

COUNT DOOKU: Master Yoda. At last we shall know who is the most powerful.

YODA draws a miniature lightsaber out of his cane. He salutes formally.

YODA: Count Dooku. No interest in contests, do I have.

COUNT DOOKU charges across the space at YODA. He rains down blows upon the tiny figure. YODA doesn't budge an inch. For the first part of the contest, he parries every cut and thrust that Dooku aims. Nothing the great swordsman tries gets through. His energy drains. His strokes become feebler, slower.

YODA attacks! He flies forward. COUNT DOOKU is forced to retreat. Wprds are insufficient to describe the range and skill of Yoda's speed and swordplay. His lightsaber his a humming blur of light.

Count Dooku's lightsaber is sent cartwheeling from his hand. He staggers back, gasping and spent, against the control panel. YODA jumps onto DOOKU'S shoulders, and is about to drive the lightsaber into the top of the Count's head.

YODA: (continuing)
The end for you, Count, this is.

COUNT DOOKU: ...Not yet...

COUNT DOOKU raises his arms and knocks YODA off his shoulders and then, with all his might, he uses the Force to pull on one of the cranes in the hanger. It comes crashing down on OBI-WAN and ANAKIN. But in the blink of and eye, YODA is under the crane, holding it up, using the Force. YODA closes his eyes and concentrates.

ANAKIN is unconscious, and OBI0WAN tries toget out from under the crane. The fallen crane trembles and starts to life. Behind it, the sound of the Sail Ship's engines are heard starting up.

YODA concentrates harder. Slowly, the crane rises. The SOUND OF THE ENGINES increases. YODA exerts every scrap of his powers. The crane lifts clear of ANAKIN and is thrown to the ground. DOOKU'S Sail Ship takes off. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN struggle to the exhausted YODA, but it's too late. The Sail Ship rises into the air and flies away. PADME and a CLONE CAPTAIN with about TEN TROOPERS appear in the doorway.

PADME: Anakin!

PADME runs too him and throws her arms around him. ANAKIN is barely able to stand up. The CLONE CAPTAIN marches up to YODA, stops, and salutes smartly.

CLONE CAPTAIN: Resistance is at an end, General.
What are your orders ?

YODA looks at him and sighs.

EXT. CORUSCANT, OLD TOWN - DAWN

COUNT DOOKU'S Interstellar Sail Ship glides through a deserted, burned-out part of Coruscant. COUNT DOOKU manoeuvres the ship into one of the empty buildings and lands.

INT. CORUSCANT, SECRET LANDING PLATFORM - DAWN

The ramp lowers. COUNT DOOKU emerges and walks to where the hooded figure of DARTH SIDIOUS stands waiting. COUNT DOOKU bows.

COUNT DOOKU: The Force is with us, my Master.

DARTH SIDIOUS: Welcome home, Lord Tyranus. You have done well.

COUNT DOOKU: I bring you good news, my Lord.
The war has begun.

DARTH SIDIOUS: Excellent. 
 (smiling)
Everything is going as planned.

EXT. CORUSCANT, JEDI TEMPLE - SUNSET

The beautiful temple basks in the red glow of the setting sun.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, COUNCIL CHAMBER - SUNSET

MACE WINDU: Where is your apprentice?

OBI-WAN: On his way back to Naboo. He is escorting Senator Amidala home.

They are standing, looking out through the tall windows at the great plaza below. YODA sits in his chair.

OBI-WAN: (continuing)
I must admit without the clones, it would not have been a victory.

YODA: Victory? Victory, you say?

OBI-WAN turns and looks at the sad little Jedi sitting in the Council Chamber. Apart from KI-ADI-MUNDI and PLO KOON, who is wounded, the Chamber is empty.

YODA: (continuing)
Not victory, a defeat, it was...
Master Obi-Wan. Begun, the Clone War has!

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LODGE, GARDEN - LATE DAY

In a rose-covered arbor overlooking the sparkling late, ANAKIN and PADME stand before a NABOO HOLY MAN.

THREEPIO and ARTOO stand by, watching, as the HOLY MAN blesses the happy couple and, amid gently falling rose petals, ANAKIN and PADME kiss.

EXT. CORUSCANT, MILITARY STAGING AREA, BALCONY - LATE DAY

PALPATINE, JAR JAR, BAIL ORGANA and the OTHER SENATORS, with TWO ROYAL GUARDS, stand looking down at the square below.

TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CLONE TROOPS are drawn up in a strict formation or move forwards in near files to climb the ramps of the Military Assault Ships.

On the balcony, PALPATINE'S expression is deeply sad. Everyone watches comberly as, in the square, loaded Assault Ships take off. Other land immediately in their place. The sky above is thick with transports. CLONE TROOPS march and board the Ships.

The Great Clone War has begun...

FADE OUT:

THE END

REVENGE OF THE SITH 

EXT. SPACE

A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away.

A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the Main Title, followed by a rollup, which crawls into infinity.

War! The Republic is crumbling under attacks by the ruthless Sith Lord, Count Dooku. There are heroes on both sides. Evil is everywhere.

In a stunning move, the fiendish droid leader, General Grievous, has swept into the Republic capital and kidnapped Chancellor Palpatine, leader of the Galactic Senate.

As the Separatist Droid Army attempts to flee the besieged capital with their valuable hostage, two Jedi Knights lead a desperate mission to rescue the captive Chancellor. . . .

PAN DOWN to reveal a REPUBLIC ATTACK CRUISER. Continue to PAN with the Cruiser as TWO JEDI STARFIGHTERS enter and head toward an enemy Battle Cruiser. TRUCK with the Jedi Fighters as they maneuver in unison, dodging flack and enemy laser fire. R2-D2 is on Anakin's ship. R4-P17 is on Obi-Wan's ship. A giant space battle is revealed as the tiny Jedi ships continue their assault in a synchronous ballet.

INT. OBI-WAN'S STARFIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

OBI-WAN bounces through the flack with a frown. His ship rocks violently.

INT. ANAKINS STARFIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

ANAKIN smiles as he blasts a TRADE FEDERATION DROID DROP FIGHTER.

ANAKIN: There isn't a droid made that can out fly you, Master, and no other way to get to the Chancellor . . .

OBI-WAN: Look out, four droids inbound . . .

EXT. CORUSCANT-SPACE BATTLE

The TWO JEDI FIGHTERS swerve in unison as FOUR TRADE FEDERATION DROID DROP FIGHTERS attack. After several clever moves by the Jedi, two of the FEDERATION DROID DROP FIGHTERS collide with each other in a ball of flame.

INT. OBI-WAN'S STARFIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

OBI-WAN struggles to maintain control of his ship.

OBI-WAN: We've got to split them up.

ANAKIN: Break left, fly through the guns on that tower.

OBI-WAN flies to the left of a huge tower on a REPUBLIC CRUISER. The TWO DROID DROP FIGHTERS follow.

OBI-WAN: Easy for you to say . . . why am I always the bait?

ANAKIN: Don't worry. I'm coming around behind you.

OBI-WAN deftly maneuvers around a large Starship's superstructure, but the TWO DROID FIGHTERS stay on his tail, BLASTING him with intense laser fire.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, they're all over me!

ANAKIN: Dead ahead! Closing . . . lock onto him, Artoo . . .

ARTOO BEEPS his reply as ANAKIN swoops in for the kill. ANAKIN BLASTS one of the DROID DROP FIGHTERS. It EXPLODES.

ANAKIN: (continuing, laughs) We got him, Artoo!

ANAKIN BLASTS away at the second DROID DROP FIGHTER as ARTOO BEEPS an angry warning.

ANAKIN: I copy, Artoo.

OBI-WAN: I'm going down on the deck.

ANAKIN: Good idea ... I need some room to maneuver.

OBI-WAN dives toward the surface of one of the larger TRADE FEDERATION BATTLESHIPS and is forced to fly through a maelstrom of laser flack. He skims the surface, followed by the DROID DROP FIGHTER, which is followed by ANAKIN.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Cut right. Do you hear me?! Cut right. Don't let him get a handle on you. Come on, Artoo, lock on! Lock on!

ARTOO BEEPS. The crosshairs merge on the DROID DROP FIGHTER.

OBI-WAN: Hurry up! I don't like this!

OBI-WAN flies through a narrow gap between two towers on a Battleship. The DROID DROP FIGHTER hits one of Obi-Wan's wings with a laser blast, and parts of the ship go flying around Obi-Wan's Astro Droid, ARFOUR.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Ouch!

R-4 BEEPS a blue streak.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Don't even try to fix it, Arfour. I've shut it down.

ANAKIN: We're locked on ... we've got him . . .

ANAKIN drops in behind the DROID DROP FIGHTER and blows him apart. ARTOO SQUEALS with delight.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Yeah! We got him . . . good going, Artoo.

OBI-WAN: Next time you're the bait . . . Now let's find the Command Ship and get on with it ...

R-4 BEEPS a blue streak.

ANAKIN: Lock onto them, Artoo. Master, General Grievous's ship is directly ahead.

ARTOO BEEPS a reply, and it reads out in Anakin's cockpit.

ANAKIN: (continuing) The one crawling with vulture droids.

INT. OBI-WAN'S STARFIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

OBI-WAN: I see it. Oh, this is going to be easy.

Ahead is a TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER with batlike DROID VULTURE FIGHTERS stalking around on the hull. The VULTURE FIGHTERS transform into flight configuration, lift off the CRUISER, and attack the JEDI STARFIGHTERS.

ANAKIN: Come on, Master.

OBI-WAN: Not this time. There's too much at stake. We need help. Odd Ball, do you copy?

ODD BALL: (OS) Copy, Red Leader.

OBI-WAN: Mark my position and form your squad up behind me . . .

INT. ODD BALL'S FIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

ODD BALL: We're on your tail, General Kenobi. Set S-foils in attack position.

The protective ray shield lowers on the main hangar of the TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER, and six new DROID TRI-FIGHTERS emerge and join the DROID VULTURE FIGHTERS heading toward the Jedi. The JEDI STARFIGHTERS extend the stability foils on the ends of their wings.

INT. ANAKIN'S FIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

ANAKIN: This is where the fun begins. Ten Vulture Droids straight ahead, coming down the left side.

ARTOO BEEPS a worried message.

OBI-WAN: Add five Tri-fighters on the right . . .

ANAKIN: I'm going head to head. See you.

OBI-WAN: Take it easy, Anakin.

Four Clone Fighters move into formation behind the Jedi.

ODD BALL: I'm on your right, Red Leader.

ANAKIN: Incoming!!

ARTOO SQUEALS as five DROID TRI-FIGHTERS pass by at high speed on the right.

OBI-WAN: Five more on the right!

Four more VULTURE DROID FIGHTERS pass at high speed from the left. All hell breaks loose. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN continue to fly in unison, backing up each other. ARTOO SQUEALS.

ANAKIN: Here we go.

The Jedi ships split up and make a quick loop around the DROID TRI-FIGHTERS, ending up behind them. BLASTING away. The DROID TRI-FIGHTERS EXPLODE.

OBI-WAN: I'm going high and right.

ANAKIN: Hang on. There are four more of them.

OBI-WAN: Stay with me . . . swing back and right . . . help me engage. Back off ... Let them pass between us.

ANAKIN: I'm coming around. I'm coming around on your tail.

OBI-WAN: All right, engage . . . and hurry. These droids are all over me like a rash.

In one incredible move, ANAKIN swings in behind the DROID TRI-FIGHTERS, blowing them away one by one until there is only one left. ARTOO CHIRPS.

ARTOO lets out a HOWL as ANAKIN accelerates past the last DROID TRI-FIGHTER, slams on his brakes, flips the Fighter around, and BLASTS the Fighter from the front. ARTOO BEEPS frantically as they fly through the debris of the destroyed ships. ANAKIN looks behind him.

ANAKIN: How many back there. Artoo? (Artoo beeps) Three . . . (continuing) Four . . . that's not good.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, you have four on your tail.

ANAKIN: I know. I know!

OBI-WAN: Four more closing from your left.

ANAKIN: I know. I know!

OBI-WAN: Break right and go high.

ANAKIN: I'm going low and left.

Obi-Wan shakes his head.

OBI-WAN: (to himself) He still has much to learn.

ANAKIN swoops low and skims across a TRADE FEDERATION BATTLESHIP, dodging flack as ARTOO bounces along, trying to get out a sentence.

ANAKIN: Hang on, Artoo. Obi-Wan, do you copy? I'm going to pull them through the needle . . .

OBI-WAN: Too dangerous. First Jedi rule: "Survive."

ANAKIN: Sorry, no choice. Come down here and thin them out a little.

OBI-WAN drops in behind the DROID VULTURE FIGHTERS chasing Anakin. ARFOUR BEEPS to OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN: Just keep me steady . . . hold on ... not yet. . . now break left.

OBI-WAN fires as he swings across the back of the VULTURE DROIDS, BLASTING four of them away. ANAKIN heads for a trench along the surface of one of the Trade Federation Battleships. He flies into the trench, which ends in a conning tower with a small slit between two main struts.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) You'll never get through there, Anakin. It's too tight.

ARTOO BEEPS nervously.

ANAKIN: Easy, Artoo . . . we've done this before.

OBI-WAN: Use the Force, think yourself through, the ship will follow.

ARTOO SQUEALS in a panic. On the view screen Artoo's squeal reads out, "WE'RE NOT GOING TO MAKE IT."

ANAKIN: Wrong thought, Artoo.

ANAKIN slips through the narrow gap. The trailing VULTURE DROID FIGHTERS CRASH.

ANAKIN: (continuing) I'm through.

OBI-WAN continues to fire on the VULTURE DROID FIGHTERS, driving them into the EXPLOSION.
A CLONE fighter is hit and explodes, spewing debris. The CLONE PILOT spins off into space.
Finally, OBI-WAN peels off and swings around, pulling up alongside ANAKIN. CLONE FIGHT SQUAD SEVEN battles the DROIDS.

ODD BALL: There are too many of them.

CLONE PILOT 2: I'm on your wing. Break left. Break left. They're all over me. Get them off my . . .

ANAKIN: I'm going to go help them out!

OBI-WAN: No, no! They are doing their job so we can do ours. Head for the Command Ship!

Another CLONE fighter is hit, bursts into flames, and spins off into space. A VULTURE DROID FIGHTER raises its head to locate its target and fires missiles at them.

ANAKIN: Missiles! Pull up!

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN break right and left, and the missiles follow them. ANAKIN does a barrel roll spin, causing the missiles following him to collide and EXPLODE. Two missiles continue to chase OBI-WAN. He banks sharply to the right, then to the left, causing one of the missiles to overshoot.

OBI-WAN: They overshot us . . .

The second missile streaks next to Obi-Wans Fighter and EXPLODES. Obi-Wan's ship rocks, and R-4, SCREAMS as the Starfighter rips through the explosion. Debris flies all around them.

ANAKIN: They're coming around!

OBI-WAN: All right, Arfour. No, no. Nothing too fancy.

ANAKIN: Surge all power units. Artoo! Stand by the reverse thrusters.

ANAKIN spins his starfighter. The missiles spin and collide.

ANAKIN: We got 'em. Artoo!

Two missiles continue to track Obi-Wan.

OBI-WAN: Flying is for droids.

Suddenly, OBI-WAN shudders, and his ship starts to plummet toward the surface of the Trade Federation Cruiser. The trailing missiles fly into what looks like debris, and detonate. Five silver balls fly out of the debris and attach themselves to the ship. The balls pop open, revealing SMALL BUZZDROIDS that begin to crawl across the surface like spiders.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) I'm hit! Anakin?

ANAKIN: I see them . . . Buzz Droids.

The BUZZ DROIDS crawl across Obi-Wan's ship and start to tear it apart. SPARKS ERUPT where the BUZZ DROIDS break into the wiring. One of the BUZZ DROIDS goes after ARFOUR.

OBI-WAN: Arfour, be careful. You have one . . .

ARFOUR's head gets ripped off and flies away.

OBI-WAN: Oh dear. They're shutting down all the controls.

ANAKIN: Move to the right so I can get a clear shot at them.

OBI-WAN: The mission. Get to the Command Ship. Get the Chancellor! I'm running out of tricks here.

ANAKIN moves into position just off Obi-Wan's left side and angles his ship so his guns are pointing at the DROIDS crawling over Obi-Wans Starfighter. ANAKIN fires and vaporizes the TWO BUZZ DROIDS, along with the left wing of Obi-Wan's ship.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) In the name of ...

ANAKIN: Steady . . . steady . . .

OBI-WAN: Anakin, hold your fire . . . hold your fire. You're not helping here.

ANAKIN: I agree, bad idea. Swing right . . . ease over . . . steady . . .

OBI-WAN: Wait . . . wait . . . I can't see a thing! My cockpit's fogging. They're all over me, Anakin.

ANAKIN: Move to the right.

OBI-WAN: Hold on, Anakin. You're going to get us both killed! Get out of here. There's nothing more you can do.

ANAKIN: I'm not leaving without you, Master.

ANAKIN moves his ship next to OBI-WAN's and tries to physically knock the BUZZ DROIDS off. There are five left. He manages to get one off, but badly dents OBI-WAN's ship in the process. One of the BUZZ DROIDS tears apiece off of the front of Obi-Wan's ship. Flames burst out, and more smoke billows out, obscuring the Jedi's view.

ANAKIN knocks off three of the BUZZ DROIDS and the fourth crawls out onto Anakin's ship and starts attacking ARTOO. ARTOO fights the BUZZ DROID.

OBI-WAN: Blast it ... I can't see . . . my controls are gone.

ANAKIN: Get 'em, Artoo. Watch out!

OBI-WAN: Artoo, hit the buzz droid's center eye.

ARTOO extends an arm and aims a stream of electricity at the swerving BUZZ DROID. The BUZZ DROID is hit squarely in the eye and falls off the ship.

ANAKIN: Yeah, you got him!

OBI-WAN: Great, Artoo.

ANAKIN: Stay on my wing . . . the General's Command Ship is dead ahead. Easy . . . pull up ... Head for the hangar.

OBI-WAN: Have you noticed the shields are still up?

ANAKIN: Oh?!? Sorry, Master.

ANAKIN streaks ahead of OBI-WAN's disintegrating Jedi Fighter and blasts the shield generator. It SPARKS and EXPLODES.

OBI-WAN: Oh, I have a bad feeling about this.

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The shield door drops away, and OBI-WAN crashes on the deck of the hangar bay, engulfed in a FANTAIL OF SPARKS. A set of blast doors starts SLAMMING shut across the hangar opening, as material is sucked into space.

ANAKIN maneuvers around the oncoming junk and flies into the hangar just as the blast doors SLAM shut.
OBI-WAN ignites his light saber and cuts his way out of the cockpit. He jumps dear just as his ship EXPLODES. BATTLE DROIDS rush at him from all directions.

ANAKIN jumps out of his ship and cuts his way through the BATTLE DROIDS to where OBI-WAN is fighting. ARTOO pops out of the ship and follows ANAKIN.

OBI-WAN: Artoo, locate the Chancellor.

ANAKIN: Tap into the ship's computers.

They cut down the last of the droids and follow ARTOO over to a computer wall socket. The two JEDI fight off FOUR MORE DROIDS as ARTOO tries to find the Chancellor. Finally, a HOLOGRAM of the Trade Federation ship appears.

OBI-WAN: The Chancellor's signal is coming from right there. The observation platform at the top of that spire.

ANAKIN: I sense Count Dooku . . .

OBI-WAN: I sense a trap.

ANAKIN: Next move?

OBI-WAN: Spring the trap.

The JEDI start to leave; ARTOO follows. The JEDI stop and turn to ARTOO.

ANAKIN: Artoo, go back. I need you to stay with the ship.

OBI-WAN: Here, take this, and wait for orders.

OBI-WAN tosses the comlink to ARTOO.

INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

GENERAL GRIEVOUS enters the bridge of the TRADE FEDERATION cruiser followed by his TWO BODYGUARDS. He walks to the front of the bridge and stands in front of the NEIMOIDIAN CAPTAIN.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: What's the situation, Captain?

CAPTAIN: TWO Jedi have landed in the main hangar bay.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Just as Count Dooku predicted.

INT. HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN head for the elevator. A door opens in the hallway and two of GENERAL GRIEVOUS's BODYGUARDS confront the JEDI.

BODYGUARD I: General Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker. We've been waiting for you.

OBI-WAN: We are here to relieve you of Chancellor Palpatine, not join him.

As a dozen more droids join the group, the JEDI ignite their lightsabers and stand back-to-back.

OBI-WAN: Anakin. . .

ANAKIN: Ready.

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN use their lightsabers and cut a large circle in the floor.

INT. GENERATOR ROOM-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO JEDI cut their way down several floors into a large generator room. Huge EXPLOSIONS outside the ship have caused several large pipes overhead to break, and fluid is spewing everywhere. The Jedi get up and turn off their light sabers. ANAKIN dips his hand into the fluid and sniffs it.

OBI-WAN: . . . fuel. The slightest charge from our sabers will send this ship into oblivion. That's why they've stopped shooting.

ANAKIN: Well then, we're safe for the time being.

OBI-WAN: Your idea of safe is not the same as mine.

They run, EXPLOSIONS rattle the ship, and pipes continue to burst around them, spilling more fuel into the hallway. At the far end, SIX SUPER BATTLE DROIDS drop into the fuel. The SOUNDS OF SHIELD DOORS CLOSING AND LOCKING ECHO throughout the hallway. They pass several large power generators, which are topped with SPARKING excess power dischargers.

ANAKIN: They're sealing this section off.

OBI-WAN: Six droids coming our way!

The last of the DOORS CAN BE HEARD CLOSING in the distance.

ANAKIN: Keep moving. There must be vents . . . This way.

They move along a wall. ANAKIN climbs up the side to a small vent. The fuel gets closer to the SPARKING dischargers.

OBI-WAN: We'll never get through that. It's too small!

They move toward a second vent. OBI-WAN is swimming in the fuel as it reaches to within a couple yards of the ceiling. ANAKIN feels along the ceiling and finds another smaller vent. He closes his eyes and tries to sense an opening, then he moves on. OBI-WAN is forced into hand-to-hand combat with one of the SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. It pulls the Jedi under the fuel. Just before he is about to drown, OBI-WAN disables the SUPER BATTLE DROID by pushing him into an exhaust pipe.

The fuel is up to the Jedi's chins. ANAKIN finds a very, very small metal grate, then pounds on it until the tiny grate breaks loose.

ANAKIN: I found our escape vent.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, this is no time for jokes. We're in serious trouble here.

ANAKIN: Only in your mind. My Master. Look, no structure. . . .

ANAKIN grabs the side of the tiny hole and gives it a big yank, ripping a large panel loose revealing a "man-sized" work shaft. They scramble through it as the DROIDS swim closer.

INT. VENT SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO JEDI pull themselves through the narrow vent shaft until they reach a small hatch in the side of the tube.

ANAKIN: Here's a way out.

As the SUPER BATTLE DROIDS reach the opening in the ceiling and the fuel gets to within a few feet of the power generator sparks, the JEDI work the keyboard on the pressure lock, opening the latch.

INT. SMALL PASSAGEWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO JEDI climb into a small passageway and slam the hatch shut. They make their way through the ever-shrinking shaft until they reach the end.

INT. HALLWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

A hatch opens in one of the main hallways of the Trade Federation Cruiser, and the JEDI squeeze out, SLAMMING the hatch. Behind them, ANAKIN seals the hatch with his laser sword.

OBI-WAN: That won't hold when the fuel hits those power dischargers.

ANAKIN: The blast will break the hull. This side's pressurized.

OBI-WAN: You still have much to learn, Anakin.

INT. VENT SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The SUPER BATTLE DROIDS climb up the vent shaft. SUPER BATTLE DROID R77 and SEVERAL OTHER DROIDS wait in the generator room as the fuel continues to rise toward the power discharger.

SUPER BATTLE DROID R77: I have a bad feeling about this.

INT. GENERATOR ROOM-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The fuel hits the SPARKING power discharger, and there is a HUGE EXPLOSION.

EXT. TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER-BATTLE

A GREAT EXPLOSION and a flaming gas cloud spray out of the side of the Federation Cruiser.

INT. HALLWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

A large bulge appears in the wall around the sealed hatch as the EXPLOSION hits. OBI-WAN jumps back, then stands amazed.

OBI-WAN: All right, you win. I have much to learn. Let's go!

ANAKIN grins at OBI-WAN, and they run down the hallway.

INT. WIDE HALLWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The two JEDI wait for an elevator to arrive. They turn around and see they are face to face with THREE DESTROYER DROIDS. The DROIDS start blasting away. Anakin deflects the bolts. OBI-WAN frantically pushes the elevator button several more times.

ANAKIN: Destroyers!!

Finally the door opens, and they rush inside under a hail of laser bolts. The elevator door slides shut. The JEDI turn to see BATTLE DROIDS standing behind them.

BATTLE DROID: Drop your weapons! I said drop 'em.

The JEDI activate their light sabers and destroy all the BATTLE DROIDS.

INT HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

R2-D2 notices two SUPER BATTLE DROIDS entering the hangar. He moves and hides behind a Jedi Starfighter.

INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The elevator begins to move and screeches to a stop.

OBI-WAN: Did you press the stop button?

ANAKIN: No, did you?

OBI-WAN: No!

ANAKIN: Well, there's more than one way out of here.

ANAKIN ignites his laser sword.

OBI-WAN: We don't want to get out, we want to get moving. Artoo . . . Artoo. Do you copy? Activate elevator . . . (looks at control panel) . . . 31174 . . .

ANAKIN cuts a hole in the elevator ceiling.

INT MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS are inspecting the Jedi starfighters. They overhear Obi-Wan's voice over the comlink and are distracted.

SUPER BATTLE DROID 1: What's that?

SUPER BATTLE DROID 2: Get back to work. It's nothing.

INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN: Artoo?

ANAKIN climbs through the hole in the ceiling of the elevator.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Always on the move.

OBI-WAN continues to talk on the comlink. Artoo quietly beeps a reply.

INT MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO tries to muffle the comlink as the TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS try to figure out where the voices are coming from. ARTOO extends an arm and plugs into a computer interface.

OBI-WAN: (OS) Artoo, switch on the comlink. Artoo, do you hear me? Artoo, we gave you a job to do! Artoo.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

Suddenly, the elevator plummets down the shaft. ANAKIN quickly jumps and grabs onto the hallway entry door. He watches as the elevator recedes down the shaft and disappears. ANAKIN struggles to keep his grip on the closed door as SPARKING wires rain down on him.

INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The elevator starts to descend rapidly.

OBI-WAN: Stop, stop! Artoo, we need to be going up.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

Anakin struggles to hang on to the narrow edge of the elevator shaft. The door to the elevator shaft is pried open, and TWO BATTLE DROIDS appear in the doorway and look down at ANAKIN. They point their guns at him.

DROID 1: Hands up, Jedi! Don't move.

DROID 2: Roger, roger.

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS overhear OBI-WAN's comlink messages to ARTOO.

SUPER BATTLE DROID 1: There it is again.

OBI-WAN: (OS) Artoo, do you copy? Artoo, do you hear me? Artoo, we need to be going up, not down.

INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The elevator races down as OBI-WAN holds on.

OBI-WAN: Stop. Artoo! We need to go up! Stop, stop!

The elevator stops with a jolt. OBI-WAN falls to the floor.

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS see ARTOO and walk toward the little droid.

SUPER BATTLE DROID 1: Hey you!

ARTOO plugs into the interface again and the elevator shoots up.

INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN stands up after having fallen in the elevator.

OBI-WAN: Now, that's better . . .

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO is held up by TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS, who chuckle as the little Astro Droid curses and swings at them.

SUPER BATTLE DROID 1: You stupid little astro droid!

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN looks down and sees the elevator heading toward him at a high rate of speed. He looks at the BATTLE DROIDS leaning over him with their guns pointed at him. He calculates for a moment, then gives himself a push and flips himself up into the elevator shaft.

Before ANAKIN can arc into a descent down the shaft, the elevator races up through the shaft, cutting the DROIDS in two. ANAKIN lands on the elevator and quickly drops back through the hole in the ceiling. OBI-WAN is startled and ignites his lightsaber.

OBI-WAN: Oh, it's you . . .

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO activates his oil hose and sprays the SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. The SUPER BATTLE DROIDS slip on the oil.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN: What was that all about?

OBI-WAN: Well, Artoo has been . . .

ANAKIN: No loose wire jokes . . . He's doing the best he can.

OBI-WAN: Did I say anything?

ANAKIN: He's trying!

OBI-WAN: I didn't say anything!

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO ignites his arm rockets and shoots out of their grip, spraying them both with oil and setting them on fire. The SUPER BATTLE DROIDS slip and slide until they fall, smoldering. ARTOO rolls away.

INT. GENERAL'S QUARTER'S-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The elevator door opens and the TWO JEDI carefully make their way into the main room of the General's Quarters.
At the far end sits SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE. ANAKIN and OBI-WAN move toward the CHANCELLOR.
As they get closer to PALPATINE, they see a very distressed look on the Chancellor's face.

OBI-WAN: (bows) Chancellor.

ANAKIN: Are you all right?

PALPATINE: (quietly) Count Dooku.

PALPATINE makes a small gesture with his hand. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN turn around. The elevator DOORS CAN BE HEARD OPENING AND CLOSING as COUNT DOOKU strides into the room. He is above the Jedi, standing on a balcony, with two SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. The Jedi turn to see him. He looks down on the Jedi.

OBI-WAN: (quietly to Anakin) This time we will do it together.

ANAKIN: I was about to say that.

COUNT DOOKU jumps down to the main level.

PALPATINE: Get help! You're no match for him. He's a Sith Lord.

OBI-WAN: Chancellor Palpatine, Sith Lords are our specialty.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN throw off their cloaks and ignite their lightsabers.

COUNT DOOKU: Your swords, please, Master Jedi. We don't want to make a mess of things in front of the Chancellor.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN move toward DOOKU.

OBI-WAN: You won't get away this time, Dooku.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN charge COUNT DOOKU. A great sword fight ensues.

COUNT DOOKU: I've been looking forward to this.

ANAKIN: My powers have doubled since the last time we met, Count.

COUNT DOOKU: Good. Twice the pride, double the fall.

DOOKU lunges at the JEDI and they fall back . . .

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing) Your moves are clumsy, Kenobi . . . too predictable. You'll have to do better.

As the battle proceeds, OBI-WAN and COUNT DOOKU are tired. ANAKIN is stronger as he becomes angry. ANAKIN continues to drive the attack on DOOKU. COUNT DOOKU throws OBI-WAN back using the Force.
ANAKIN and COUNT DOOKU move up the stairs. As they reach the upper landing of the General's Quarters, ANAKIN leaps over COUNT DOOKU. OBI-WAN reaches the top of the stairs, destroying TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. COUNT DOOKU holds OBI-WAN in the air using the Force as he turns and kicks ANAKIN out of frame. OBI-WAN is choking.
ANAKIN hits the archway.
DOOKU sends OBI-WAN flying. The Jedi tumbles to the lower level unconscious. COUNT DOOKU spins around again and, using the Force, causes a section of the balcony to drop onto OBI-WAN. ANAKIN spins and kicks COUNT DOOKU, sending him over the balcony. ANAKIN Jumps, following him down to the main floor. COUNT DOOKU and ANAKIN continue the fight.

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing) I sense great fear in you, Skywalker. You have hate, you have anger, but you dont use them.

Anakin regains his composure and attacks COUNT DOOKU as the Dark Lord continues his spin to meet him head on. Their fighting becomes even more intense.
Anakin attacks COUNT DOOKU with a new ferociousness.

INT. GENERAL'S QUARTERS-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

Anakin and Dooku continue their fight. It is intense! Finally, in one last energized charge, ANAKIN cuts off COUNT DOOKU's hands. The Jedi catches the lightsaber as it drops from the severed Sith Lord's hand. COUNT DOOKU stumbles to the floor as ANAKIN puts the two lightsabers to his neck. PALPATINE is grinning as he watches COUNT DOOKU's defeat.

PALPATINE: Good, Anakin, good. I knew you could do it. Kill him. Kill him now!

ANAKIN: I shouldn't . . .

PALPATINE: Do it!!

ANAKIN cuts off COUNT DOOKU's head. A huge EXPLOSION somewhere deep in the ship rattles everything.

ANAKIN: ... I couldn't stop myself.

PALPATINE: You did well, Anakin. He was too dangerous to be kept alive.

ANAKIN drops COUNT DOOKU's lightsaber, moving to PALPATINE.

ANAKIN: Yes, but he was an unarmed prisoner.

ANAKIN raises his hands toward PALPATINE, who is strapped in the Admiral's Chair. The Chancellor's restraints pop loose.

ANAKIN: (continuing) I shouldn't have done that, Chancellor. It's not the Jedi way.

PALPATINE stands up, rubbing his wrists.

PALPATINE: It is only natural. He cut off your arm, and you wanted revenge. It wasn't the first time, Anakin. Remember what you told me about your mother and the Sand People. Now, we must leave before more security droids arrive.

The ship begins to list to one side. ANAKIN rushes over to OBI-WAN, lifts the control console from on top of him, and pulls him free. He kneels down and checks out his unconscious friend. PALPATINE heads for the elevators.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Anakin, there is no time. We must get off the ship before it's too late.

ANAKIN: He seems to be all right. No broken bones, breathing's all right.

PALPATINE: Leave him, or we'll never make it.

ANAKIN: His fate will be the same as ours.

ANAKIN picks up OBI-WAN, slings him over his shoulder, and heads for the elevators.

INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Prepare for attack.

PILOT: All batteries fire! Fire!

INT. BATTLESTATIONS-REPUBLIC CRUISER

Clone gunners fire on the Trade Federation cruiser and take fire in return. Gun emplacements are destroyed. Clone troopers go flying.

INT. ELEVATOR LOBBY-GENERAL'S QUARTERS-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN carries OBI-WAN to the elevator doors and hits the button. PALPATINE joins him.

ANAKIN: The elevator's not working, (into his comlink) Artoo . . .

ARTOO BEEPS a response to ANAKIN.

ANAKIN: (continuing) . . . Activate Elevator 3224.

Suddenly the ship shifts to its side as the elevator doors open. PALPATINE is thrown to the ground. ANAKIN jumps to the door frame of the elevator. ANAKIN looks into the elevator shaft.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Artoo ... do you copy? Artoo, come in!

INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

Windows are blown out, droids and equipment are sucked into space.

PILOT: Reverse stabilizers.

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

As the ship rolls, spacecraft and equipment CRASH from one side of the ship to the other.
Several objects break through the metal blast doors, causing objects to be sucked into space. ARTOO starts to slide toward one of the small holes.

INT. ELEVATOR LOBBY-GENERAL'S QUARTERS-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

As the elevator shaft rotates, it has become a long hallway.
ANAKIN clings to the doorframe with OBI-WAN on his shoulder, as the Chancellor struggles to join him.

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO continues to skid and slide toward open space. He swerves around boxes and wrecked fighters. One of the BATTLE DROIDS stumbles and is consumed by the electronic shield in a zap. ARTOO BEEPS a reply as he dodges the laser blasts of the BATTLE DROIDS. One bolt hits very near him, and he SCREAMS in terror.

INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

PILOT: Magnetize! Magnetize!

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO is about to be overtaken by a starfighter sliding behind him. He falls into a heap of broken battle droid parts and the fighter bounces over him.

EXT. SPACE-CORUSCANT

The TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER heads straight down toward the planet.

INT. ELEVATOR LOBBY-GENERAL'S QUARTERS-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN jumps into the horizontal elevator shaft with OBI-WAN still on his shoulder.

ANAKIN: We can't wait. Come on, we have to be fast.

PALPATINE climbs into the elevator shaft also. They start running. The ship begins to roll again, and the Jedi and the Chancellor are forced to jump from one side of the elevator to the other.

INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Fire the emergency booster engines.

PILOT: Leveling out, sir.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT ON SIDE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN still carrying OBI-WAN on his back, and PALPATINE run down the elevator shaft as it starts to move upright. ANAKIN cuts a control box on one of the doors, but before the doors can open, the ship moves to an angle, causing ANAKIN and PALPATINE to start sliding down the shaft. ANAKIN grabs some wires in the control box with one hand. PALPATINE grabs onto the Jedi's leg. As the ship rights itself, they are left hanging in the bottomless elevator shaft.

INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT, VERTICAL-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN, OBI-WAN, and PALPATINE hang precariously on the side of the bottomless elevator shaft. OBI-WAN regains consciousness and tries to look around.

ANAKIN: Easy. . . . We're in a bit of a situation.

OBI-WAN: Did I miss something?

OBI-WAN looks down and sees PALPATINE and the bottomless pit. They hear ARTOO BEEPING on Obi-Wan's comlink. The ship begins to roll, causing the vertical shaft to move into a forty-five-degree angle. They hear the elevator brakes release and look up to see the elevator heading toward them.

ANAKINN: Hold on.

OBI-WAN: What is that?

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN look up to watch the elevator approach them at high speed, then OBI-WAN turns to ANAKIN.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Oops.

ANAKIN: Artoo, Artoo, shut down the elevator!

OBI-WAN: Too late! Jump!

They fall about three hundred feet before the tilt of the ship catches up with them, and they hit the side of the shaft and slide at great speed just ahead of the elevator. The shaft continues to rotate until it is completely horizontal.
ANAKIN and OBI-WAN take out and throw grappling hooks. The hooks catch and they continue to fall. All the doors in the elevator shaft open up, and the group swings through the open door into a hallway. The elevator roars by.

INT. ELEVATOR LOBBY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN, OBI-WAN, and PALPATINE fly through the elevator door and land.

OBI-WAN: Let's see if we can find something in the hangar bay that's still flyable. Come on.

ANAKIN: Artoo, get down here. Artoo, do you copy?

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

As the Federation Cruiser continues to rotate, ARTOO SQUEALS and pokes a periscope out of a pile of broken BATTLE DROID PARTS. He looks around then rockets up out of the debris.

INT. HALLWAY TO HANGAR BAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN lead PALPATINE down a hallway toward the hangar bay.

INT. DOORWAY TO HANGAR BAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

It is extremely windy as bits and pieces are continually sucked into space. The hangar bay doors are closed, but great stresses are being exerted as the ship twists, re-entering the atmosphere of Coruscant. They stop in a doorway leading into the hangar bay.

OBI-WAN: None of those ships will get us anywhere.

ANAKIN: I agree.

PALPATINE: What are we going to do?

ANAKIN: I don't know.

OBI-WAN: Don't look at me. I don't know.

ANAKIN and PALPATINE both look to OBI-WAN. He shrugs his shoulders. Anakin's Fighter has been sucked out of the hangar bay and is totaled. Suddenly, the ship turns on its side.

ANAKIN: Here, Chancellor, lock this around your waist, and hold on.

OBI-WAN: We'll head toward the bridge and see if we can find an escape pod.

ANAKIN hands PALPATINE the end of a cable that is attached to his utility belt. PALPATINE attaches it around his waist. ANAKIN and OBI-WAN throw their utility cables to some pipes in the ceiling and swing to a second set of pipes.

INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN grabs onto the pipes that run along what was the ceiling and is now the wall. As he moves out into the hangar, TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS start firing at him. The Jedi ignites his lightsaber and deflects the bolts back at the DROIDS, blowing them up. ANAKIN and PALPATINE follow OBI-WAN along the pipes running along the ceiling of the hangar. PALPATINE struggles against the escaping air of the pressurized hangar. PALPATINE loses his grip as a pipe breaks, causing a rush of steam, but ANAKIN manages to maintain his grasp on the pipe as the CHANCELLOR dangles on the other end of the utility cable. They are surrounded by SPARKS and EXPLOSIONS as the ship twists and tries to break apart. ANAKIN moves out of the steam and struggles to pull PALPATINE back to safety. ANAKIN is almost pulled loose in the buffeting winds. The ceiling behind them buckles, causing pipes to break, creating geysers of steam. Some bits of pipe go hurling into the blast doors and out into space. They make it through a hangar doorway and close it behind them.

INT. HANGAR DOORWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN, ANAKIN and PALPATINE are out of breath.

ANAKIN/OBI-WAN: Well, that was close.

They laugh.

INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

BODYGUARD: General, we found the Jedi. They're in hallway 328.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Activate ray shields.

INT. HALLWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

They run down the hallway. Suddenly, ray shields drop around them, putting them in an electronic box in the middle of the hallway.

ANAKIN: Ray shields!

OBI-WAN takes a deep breath to express his total disappointment.

OBI-WAN: Wait a minute, how'd this happen! We're smarter than this.

ANAKIN: Apparently not, Master. This is the oldest trap in the book . . . Well ... I was distracted.

OBI-WAN: Oh, so all of a sudden it's my fault.

ANAKIN: You're the Master. I'm just a hero.

OBI-WAN: I'm open to suggestions here.

PALPATINE: Why don't we let them take us to General Grievous. Perhaps with Count Dooku's demise, we can negotiate our release.

The Jedi look at each other in disbelief.

ANAKIN: I say . . . patience.

OBI-WAN: Patience! That's your plan, is it?

ANAKIN: Yes, Artoo will be along in a few moments and he'll release the ray shields . . .

ARTOO comes skidding across the hallway and bashes into the opposite wall. He takes a moment to compose himself.

ANAKIN: (continuing) See! No problem.

Suddenly several doorways open, revealing TWO DESTROYER DROIDS. SIXTEEN SUPER BATTLE DROIDS emerge from behind the DESTROYER DROIDS.
ARTOO turns and zaps one of the SUPER BATTLE DROIDS who then kicks ARTOO over.

SUPER BATTLE DROID: Don't move, dummy. Ouch! Zap this.

OBI-WAN: Do you have a plan B?

EXT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN, ANAKIN PALPATINE, and ARTOO are captured by GENERAL GRIEVOUS. They stand before the ALIEN DROID GENERAL.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Oh yes. General Kenobi, the Negotiator. We've been waiting for you. That wasn't much of a rescue.

A BATTLE DROID walks to GENERAL GRIEVOUS and hands him the JEDI'S lightsabers.

OBI-WAN: That depends upon your point of view. Hah!

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: And Anakin Skywalker ... I was expecting someone with your reputation to be a little older.

ANAKIN: General Grievous . . . Supreme Commander of the Droid Armies. You're shorter than I expected.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Ahhhh, Jedi scum . . .

OBI-WAN: Anakin, try not to upset him. We have a job to do.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Your lightsabers will make a fine addition to my collection.

OBI-WAN: Not this time. And this time you won't escape.

ANAKIN: Artoo.

ARTOO creates a distraction by extending all his arms, shooting out electrical pulses, and bouncing around.
OBI-WAN, hands restrained with electrobonds, spins around, reaches out and, using the Force, yanks his lightsaber out of the General's hand, ignites it, and cuts his bonds. He continues to spin around and cuts Anakin free.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Crush them! Make them suffer!

ANAKIN uses the Force to yank his lightsaber out of the General's hand.

The DROIDS that surround them begin to FIRE. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN jump into the line of fire. The bridge degenerates into chaos. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN are locked in a pitched battle between electro staffs and laser swords with GENERAL GRIEVOUS's TWO BODYGUARDS.

CHANCELLOR PALPATINE is taken away by two BATTLE DROIDS. GENERAL GRIEVOUS walks around the bridge directing the BATTLE DROIDS.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Stay and watch your stations.

OBI-WAN fights one of General Grievous's BODYGUARDS. The BODYGUARD carries an electrified staff about five feet long. When the laser sword hits it, electrical bolts fly everywhere and surround the laser sword. OBI-WAN is unable to cut the staff. The Jedi gets whacked pretty good a couple of times and is knocked halfway across the bridge.
OBI-WAN pulls himself together and attacks again, cutting off the DROID BODYGUARD'S head. The DROID BODYGUARD keeps attacking. ANAKIN struggles to defend himself against the other manic DROID BODYGUARD. He cuts the DROID BODYGUARD in half. TWO BATTLE DROIDS try to take the CHANCELLOR away.
ANAKIN follows them down the hallway and cuts them down, rescuing the Chancellor.
OBI-WAN finishes off the headless BODYGUARD. It crumbles to the floor in pieces.
ALARMS SOUND as the giant spacecraft begins to list and fall out of orbit. A PILOT yells at GENERAL GRIEVOUS.

PILOT: Sir, we are falling out of orbit. All aft control cells are dead.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Stay on course . . . Don't bother with them. Keep the ship in orbit.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN destroy the remaining DROIDS. GENERAL GRIEVOUS retrieves one of the BODYGUARD'S staffs and faces OBI-WAN. ANAKIN leaps over a console and lands behind GENERAL GRIEVOUS.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: You lose, General Kenobi.

One of the PILOTS stands next to the General.

PILOT: The ship is breaking up!

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: We've run out of time.

OBI-WAN tries to get at GENERAL GRIEVOUS. ANAKIN runs at the General from the opposing side. GENERAL GRIEVOUS turns and throws his electrified staff at the window. It breaks, causing chaos as everything that is not nailed down is sucked into space. GENERAL GRIEVOUS is the first one sucked out into space. He fires a cable from his arm that attaches to the ship. He swings in and lands firmly on the side of the ship.
OBI-WAN, ANAKIN, and PALPATINE hold on for dear life. A blast shield closes around where the window used to be.

INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN continues to fight the BATTLE DROIDS. The DROIDS have backed him into a corner. OBI-WAN hides behind a control panel as the DROIDS blast away at him. He jumps up and over the DROIDS, cutting most of them down before he lands. He destroys the DROIDS and joins ANAKIN.
ANAKIN and OBI-WAN cut through the rest of the DROIDS as if they were made of butter. PALPATINE stands in shock as he watches the carnage. Droid parts are firing everywhere. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN stand back to back and cut down the last of the DROIDS just as there is a huge shudder, followed by more alarms. SPARKS begin to fly outside the windows.

PALPATINE: The hull is burning up!

EXT. HULL-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER-SPACE

GENERAL GRIEVOUS detaches his cable and crawls along the exterior hull of the Federation Cruiser, using his magnetized hands and feet. He reaches a row of escape pods and enters an airlock.

INT. POD BAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER-SPACE

GENERAL GRIEVOUS enters the escape pod bay through the hatch. The Droid General goes to a control panel and opens an escape pod.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Time to abandon ship.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS pulls a row of switches, and one by one the escape pods are jettisoned.

INT. ESCAPE POD-SPACE

He gets in one, the hatch closes, and the escape pod blasts away from the damaged Cruiser.

INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN go over to the navigator's chair.

ANAKIN: All the escape pods have been launched.

OBI-WAN: Grievous. Can you fly a cruiser like this?

ANAKIN: You mean, do I know how to land what's left of this thing?

ANAKIN sits in the pilot's chair and sees on a screen the back half of the ship break away. There is a great jolt, and the ship tilts forward.

OBI-WAN: Well?

ANAKIN: Under the circumstances, I'd say the ability to pilot this thing is irrelevant. Strap yourselves in.

OBI-WAN and PALPATINE strap themselves into chairs. ANAKIN struggles with the controls of the ship. The ship starts to glow, and pieces break off. ARTOO moves in on Palpatine 's controls and assists in flying the cruiser.

OBI-WAN: Steady . . . Attitude . . . eighteen degrees.

ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN: Pressure rising. We've got to slow this wreck down. Open all hatches, extend all flaps, and drag fins.

OBI-WAN: Temp steady. Hatches open, flaps extended, drag fins . . .

A large part of the ship breaks away.

ANAKIN: We lost something.

OBI-WAN: Not to worry, we're still flying half the ship.

ANAKIN: Now we're really picking up speed . . . I'm going to shift a few degrees and see if I can slow us down.

OBI-WAN: Careful . . . we're heating up-twelve thousand . . . thirteen thousand . . .

ANAKIN: What's our speed?

OBI-WAN: Eight plus sixty-forty. Eight plus sixty-twenty. Eight plus sixty. Temp ten thousand, nine thousand . . . we're in the atmosphere . . .

ANAKIN points to one of the controls. ARTOO beeps madly.

ANAKIN: Grab that . . . Keep us level.

OBI-WAN: Steady. Steady.

ANAKIN: Easy, Artoo. Hang on, this may get a little rough. We lost our heat shields.

OBI-WAN: Five thousand. Three thousand . . . two thousand. Fireships on the left and the right.

FlRESHIP PILOT: We'll take you in.

OBI-WAN: Copy that. Landing strip's straight ahead.

ANAKIN: We're coming in too hot.

OBI-WAN: Easy-easy.

The ship leaves a contrail as it streaks across the Coruscant skyline. PALPATINE and OBI-WAN hold on for dear life as the ship shakes and rattles toward an industrial landing platform.

EXT. CORUSCANT-INDUSTRIAL LANDING PLATFORM-AFTERNOON

A large landing platform in the industrial part of the city is surrounded by Emergency Fire Speeders. The smoking ship approaches as five Fireships spray it with foam. The ship finally makes a rather hard landing.

OBI-WAN: Another happy landing.

EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-LANDING PLATFORM-LATE AFTERNOON

The small Jedi Shuttle carrying PALPATINE and the JEDI arrives at the landing platform. There are a DOZEN SENATORS, including BAIL ORGANA, JAR JAR BINKS, and C-3PO, waiting for them. PALPATINE, R2-D2, and ANAKIN get out. OBI-WAN and MACE stay in the doorway of the Jedi Shuttle.

ANAKIN: (to Obi-Wan) Are you coming, Master?

OBI-WAN: Oh no. I'm not brave enough for politics. I have to report to the Council. Besides, someone needs to be the poster boy.

ANAKIN: Hold on, this whole operation was your idea. You planned it. You led the rescue operation. You have to be the one to take the bows this time.

OBI-WAN: Sorry, old friend. Let us not forget that you rescued me from the Buzz Droids. And you killed Count Dooku. And you rescued the Chancellor, carrying me unconscious on your back, and you managed to land that bucket of bolts safely . . .

ANAKIN: All because of your training, Master. You deserve all those speeches of your greatness.

OBI-WAN: . . . the endless speeches . . . Anakin, let's be fair. Today, you are the hero and you deserve your glorious day with the politicians.

ANAKIN: All right. But you owe me . . . and not for saving your skin for the tenth time . . .

OBI-WAN: Ninth time . . . that business on Cato Nemoidia doesn't count. I'll see you at the briefing.

ANAKIN smiles and walks away from OBI-WAN.
The CHANCELLOR and his entourage approach MACE.

MACE WlNDU: Chancellor Palpatine, what a welcome sight! Are you all right?

PALPATINE: Yes, thanks to your two Jedi Knights. They killed Count Dooku, but General Grievous has escaped once again.

MACE WlNDU: General Grievous will run and hide as he always does. He is a coward.

PALPATINE: That maybe true, but with Count Dooku dead, he is the leader of the Droid Army, and I assure you, the Senate will vote to continue the war as long as Grievous is alive.

MACE WlNDU: Then the Jedi Council will make finding Grievous our highest priority.

BAIL, ANAKIN, and the crowd walk away from the platform toward the Senate Building Grand Hallway.

BAIL ORGANA: Skywalker, the Republic cannot praise you enough.

ANAKIN and BAIL ORGANA, walking in the hallway.

ANAKIN: Thank you, Senator Organa. The kidnapping was a bold move by the Separatists, but it was a mistake that Obi-Wan and I were able to take advantage of.

ARTOO and THREEPIO follow behind the crowd.

C-3PO: It couldn't possibly be as bad as all that.

ARTOO beeps.

C-3PO: (continuing) Well, there, I agree with you. In fact, I could do with a tune-up myself.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-MAIN HALLWAY-LATE AFTERNOON

ANAKIN is at the back of the crowd of SENATORS, talking with BAIL ORGANA. R2-D2 and C-3PO scoot along ahead of them.

BAIL ORGANA: The end of Count Dooku will surely bring an end to this war, and an end to the Chancellor's draconian security measures.

ANAKIN: I wish that were so, but the fighting is going to continue until General Grievous is spare parts . . . The Chancellor is very clear about that.

Behind a row of large columns, a SHADOWY FIGURE follows the JEDI and the SENATOR. ANAKIN senses the figure.

BAIL ORGANA: I'll do everything I can with the Senate.

ANAKIN: Excuse me.

BAIL ORGANA: Certainly.

ANAKIN stops, and BAIL goes off after PALPATINE and the others. ANAKIN goes behind one of the giant columns to meet up with the SHADOWY FIGURE, who is revealed to be SENATOR PADME AMDALA. They embrace and kiss.

PADME: Oh, Anakin! Thank goodness, you're back.

ANAKIN: I missed you, Padme. I've missed you so.

PADME: There were whispers . . . that you'd been killed. I've been living with unbearable dread.

ANAKIN: I'm back, I'm all right. It feels like we've been apart for a lifetime. And it might have been ... If the Chancellor hadn't been kidnapped. I don't think they would have ever brought us back from the Outer Rim sieges.

ANAKIN starts to give her another kiss. She steps back.

PADME: Wait, not here . . .

He grabs her again.

ANAKIN: Yes, here! I'm tired of all this deception. I don't care if they know we're married.

PADME: Anakin, don't say things like that. You're important to the Republic ... to ending this war. I love you more than anything, but I won't let you give up your life as a Jedi for me . . .

ANAKIN: I've given my life to the Jedi order, but I'd only give up my life, for you.

PADME: (playfully) I wouldn't like that. I wouldn't like that one bit. Patience, my handsome Jedi . . . Come to me later.

ANAKIN embraces her, then looks at her.

ANAKIN: Are you all right? You're trembling. What's going on?

PADME: I'm just excited to see you.

ANAKIN: That's not it. I sense more . . . what is it?

PADME: Nothing . . . nothing . . .

ANAKIN: You're frightened. (a little angry) Tell me what's going on!

PADME begins to cry.

PADME: You've been gone five months . . . it's been very hard for me. I've never felt so alone. There's . . .

ANAKIN: . . . Is there someone else?

PADME: (peeved, angry) No! Why do you think that? Your jealousy upsets me so much, Anakin. I do nothing to betray you, yet you still don't trust me. Nothing has changed.

ANAKIN: (sheepish) I'm afraid of losing you, Padme . . . that's all.

PADME: I will never stop loving you, Anakin. My only fear is losing you.

ANAKIN: It's just that I've never seen you like this . . .

PADME: Something wonderful has happened.

They look at each other for a long moment.

PADME: (continuing) I'm . . . Annie, I'm pregnant.

ANAKIN is stunned. He thinks through all of the ramifications of this. He takes her in his arms.

ANAKIN: That's . . . that's wonderful.

PADME: What are we going to do?

ANAKIN: We're not going to worry about anything right now, all right? This is a happy moment. The happiest moment of my life.

EXT. UTAPAU-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

A small NEIMOIDIAN SHUTTLE lands. BATTLE DROIDS surround the ramp as GENERAL GRIEVOUS descends onto the platform. SUPER BATTLE DROID G21 approaches.

SUPER BATTLE DROID G21: The planet is secure, sir. The population is under control.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Good. Where is the Separatist Council?

SUPER BATTLE DROID G21: This way, sir ...

GENERAL GRIEVOUS takes the elevator to an upper level. He enters a conference room and presses a series of buttons on the table, and bows.

INT. UTAPAU-CONFERENCE ROOM-GRAND CHAMBER-DAY

A hologram of Darth Sidious appears.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Yes, Lord Sidious.

DARTH SlDIOUS: General Grievous, I suggest you move the Separatist leaders to Mustafar.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: It will be done, My Lord.

DARTH SlDIOUS: The end of the war is near, General, and I promise you, victory is assured.

The hologram of Sidious talks to GRIEVOUS about the death of Count Dooku.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: But the loss of Count Dooku?

DARTH SlDIOUS: His death was a necessary loss, which will ensure our victory. Soon I will have a new apprentice . . . one far younger and more powerful than Lord Tyranus.

INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-TWILIGHT

PADME stands in the balcony brushing her hair. ANAKIN leans against the wall, watching her lovingly.

ANAKIN: . . . every second I was thinking of you. Protecting the endless, nameless Outer Rim settlements became a torture . . . the battles were easy, the longing became unbearable . . . I've never been so happy as I am at this moment.

PADME: Annie, I want to have our baby back home on Naboo. We could go to the lake country where no one would know . . . where we would be safe. I could go early-and fix up the baby's room. I know the perfect spot, right by the gardens.

ANAKIN: You are so beautiful!

PADME: It's only because I'm so in love . . .

ANAKIN: No, it's because I'm so in love with you.

PADME: So love has blinded you?

ANAKIN: Well, that's not exactly what I meant . . .

PADME: But it's probably true!

They laugh.

ANAKIN: I haven't laughed in so long . . .

PADME: Neither have I.

INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-DREAM

The view is strangely distorted and disorienting. PADME is on a table in an alien medical chamber. She is giving birth and is screaming.

PADME: Anakin, help me! Help, Anakin! Anakin, I love you. I love you.

She screams and dies.

INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-BEDROOM-NIGHT

ANAKIN awakens in a panic. He is covered in sweat. He looks over in the bed and sees PADME sound asleep next to him. ANAKIN gets out from under the sheets and sits on the side of the bed. He is breathing heavily. He puts his head in his hands and weeps. He regains his composure and leaves the room down a set of stairs. PADME awakens, realizes Anakin is gone.

PADME: Anakin??

She gets out of bed and goes downstairs to look for him.

EXT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-VERANDA-NIGHT

ANAKIN walks down a flight of stairs onto a large veranda. The vast city planet of Coruscant, smoldering from the battle, is spread out before him. He is distraught.
PADME descends the stairs and joins ANAKIN on the veranda. She takes his hand. He doesn't look at her.

PADME: What's bothering you?

ANAKIN: Nothing . . .

ANAKIN touches the japor snippet around PADME'S neck, that Anakin gave her when he was a small boy.

ANAKIN: (continuing) I remember when I gave this to you.

PADME: Anakin, how long is it going to take for us to be honest with each other?

ANAKIN: It was a dream.

PADME: Bad?

ANAKIN: Like the ones I used to have about my mother just before she died.

PADME: And?

ANAKIN: It was about you.

They look at each other. A moment of concern passes between them.

PADME: Tell me.

ANAKIN: It was only a dream.

PADME gives him a long, worried look. ANAKIN takes a deep breath.

ANAKIN: (continuing) You die in childbirth . . .

PADME: And the baby?

ANAKIN: I don't know.

PADME: It was only a dream.

ANAKIN takes PADME in his arms.

ANAKIN: . . . I won't let this one become real, Padme.

They embrace, then part.

PADME: Anakin, this baby will change our lives. I doubt the Queen will continue to allow me to serve in the Senate, and if the Council discovers you are the father, you will be expelled from the Jedi Order.

ANAKIN: I know .

PADME: Anakin, do you think Obi-Wan might be able to help us?

ANAKIN: (suspicious) Have you told him anything?

PADME: No, but he's your mentor, your best friend . . . he must suspect something.

ANAKIN: He's been a father to me, but he's still on the Council. Don't tell him anything!

PADME: I won't, Anakin.

ANAKIN: I don't need his help . . . Our baby is a blessing, not a problem.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-YODAS QUARTERS-DAY

YODA and ANAKIN sit in Yoda 's room, deep in thought.

YODA: Premonitions . . . premonitions . . . Hmmmm . . . these visions you have . . .

ANAKIN: They are of pain, suffering, death . . .

YODA: Yourself you speak of, or someone you know?

ANAKIN: Someone . . .

YODA: . . . close to you?

ANAKIN: Yes.

YODA: Careful you must be when sensing the future, Anakin. The fear of loss is a path to the dark side.

ANAKIN: I won't let these visions come true, Master Yoda.

YODA: Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them, do not. Miss them, do not. Attachment leads to jealousy. The shadow of greed, that is.

ANAKIN: What must I do, Master Yoda?

YODA: Train yourself to let go of everything you fear to lose.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-HALLWAY-DAY

ANAKIN hurries down a temple hallway, heading toward a Jedi Briefing Room. SEVERAL JEDI are exiting.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-BRIEFING ROOM-DAY

ANAKIN rushes into the Briefing Room. By the time he reaches the Chamber, the last of the Jedi are leaving. Only OBI-WAN remains at the front of the lecture hall. He is shutting off some holograms and electronic charts and maps.

OBI-WAN: You missed the report on the Outer Rim sieges.

ANAKIN: I'm sorry, I was held up. I have no excuse.

OBI-WAN: In short, they are going very well. Saleucami has fallen, and Master Vos has moved his troops to Boz Pity.

ANAKIN: What's wrong then?

OBI-WAN: The Senate is expected to vote more executive powers to the Chancellor today.

ANAKIN: Well, that can only mean less deliberating and more action. Is that bad? It will make it easier for us to end this war.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, be careful of your friend Palpatine.

ANAKIN: Be careful of what?

OBI-WAN: He has requested your presence.

ANAKIN: What for?

OBI-WAN: He would not say.

ANAKIN: He didn't inform the Jedi Council? That's unusual, isn't it?

OBI-WAN: All of this is unusual, and it's making me feel uneasy. You're probably aware that relations between the Council and the Chancellor are stressed.

ANAKIN: I know the Council has grown wary of the Chancellor's power, mine also for that matter. Aren't we all working together to save the Republic? Why all this distrust?

OBI-WAN: The Force grows dark, Anakin, and we are all affected by it. Be wary of your feelings.

INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-DAY

ANAKIN stands with PALPATINE at his window overlooking the vastness of Coruscant. Several buildings have been destroyed. A brown haze hangs over the landscape.

PALPATINE: Anakin, this afternoon the Senate is going to call on me to take direct control of the Jedi Council.

ANAKIN: The Jedi will no longer report to the Senate?

PALPATINE: They will report to me . . . personally. The Senate is too unfocused to conduct a war. This will bring a quick end to things.

ANAKIN: I agree, but the Jedi Council may not see it that way.

PALPATINE: There are times when we must all endure adjustments to the constitution in the name of security.

ANAKIN: With all due respect, sir, the Council is in no mood for more constitutional amendments.

PALPATINE: Thank you, my friend, but in this case I have no choice . . . this war must be won.

ANAKIN: Everyone will agree on that.

PALPATINE: Anakin, I've known you since you were a small boy. I have advised you over the years when I could ... I am very proud of your accomplishments. You have won many battles the Jedi Council thought were lost . . . and you saved my life. I hope you trust me, Anakin.

ANAKIN: Of course.

PALPATINE: I need your help, son.

ANAKIN: What do you mean?

PALPATINE: I fear the Jedi. The Council keeps pushing for more control. They're shrouded in secrecy and obsessed with maintaining their autonomy . . . ideals. I find simply incomprehensible in a democracy.

ANAKIN: I can assure you that the Jedi are dedicated to the values of the Republic, sir.

PALPATINE: Nevertheless, their actions will speak more loudly than their words. I'm depending on you.

ANAKIN: For what? I don't understand.

PALPATINE: To be the eyes, ears, and voice of the Republic . . .

ANAKIN thinks about this.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Anakin . . . I'm appointing you to be my personal representative on the Jedi Council.

ANAKIN: Me? A Master? I am overwhelmed, sir, but the Council elects its own members. They will never accept this.

PALPATINE: I think they will . . . they need you more than you know.

INT. CORUSCANT-BAIL ORGANA'S OFFICE-DAY

PADME, BAIL ORGANA, and SENATORS MON MOTHMA, FANG ZAR, TERR TANEEL, and GIDDEAN DANU sit in Senator Organa 's office.

BAIL ORGANA: Now that he has control of the Jedi Council, the Chancellor has appointed Governors to oversee all star systems in the Republic.

FANG ZAR: When did this happen?

BAIL ORGANA: The decree was posted this morning.

PADME: Do you think he will dismantle the Senate?

MON MOTHMA: Why bother? As a practical matter, the Senate no longer exists.

GIDDEAN DANU: The constitution is in shreds. Amendment after amendment . . . executive directives, sometimes a dozen in one day.

BAIL ORGANA: We can't let a thousand years of democracy disappear without a fight.

EVERYONE looks at each other, a little worried at the implications of what was just said.

TERR TANEEL: What are you suggesting?

BAIL ORGANA: I apologize. I didn't mean to sound like a Separatist.

MON MOTHMA: We are not Separatists trying to leave the Republic. We are loyalists, trying to preserve democracy in the Republic.

BAIL ORGANA: It has become increasingly clear to many of us that the Chancellor has become an enemy of democracy.

PADME: I can't believe it has come to this! Chancellor Palpatine is one of my oldest advisors. He served as my Ambassador when I was Queen.

GlDDEAN DANU: Senator, I fear you underestimate the amount of corruption that has taken hold in the Senate.

MON MOTHMA: The Chancellor has played the Senators well. They know where the power lies, and they will do whatever it takes to share in it. Palpatine has become a dictator and we have helped him to do it.

BAIL ORGANA: We can't sit around debating any longer, we have decided to do what we can to stop it. Senator Mon Mothma and I are putting together an organization . . .

PADME: Say no more. Senator Organa. I understand. At this point, it's better to leave some things unsaid.

BAIL ORGANA: Yes. I agree and we must not discuss this with anyone, without everyone in this group agreeing.

MON MOTHMA: That means those closest to you . . . even family ... no one can be told.

They ALL nod their heads. PADME considers this for a moment.

PADME: Agreed.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-HALLWAY OUTSIDE COUNCIL CHAMBERS-DAY

ANAKIN stands pensively in front of the Jedi Council Chambers. The door opens.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-COUNCIL CHAMBERS-DAY

ANAKIN enters and stands in the middle of the room. He is surrounded by the Jedi Council MACE WINDU, EETH KOTH OBI-WAN, YODA, the HOLOGRAMS of PLO KOON and KI-ADI-MUNDI.

MACE: Anakin Skywalker, we have approved your appointment to the Council as the Chancellor's personal representative.

ANAKIN: I will do my best to uphold the principles of the Jedi Order.

YODA: Allow this appointment lightly, the Council does not. Disturbing is this move by Chancellor Palpatine.

ANAKIN: I understand.

MACE: You are on this Council, but we do not grant you the rank of Master.

Anakin reacts with anger.

ANAKIN: What? ! How can you do this?? This is outrageous, it's unfair . . . I'm more powerful than any of you. How can you be on the Council and not be a Master?

MACE: Take a seat, young Skywalker.

ANAKIN: Forgive me, Master.

ANAKIN goes and sits in one of the empty chairs. Everyone is embarrassed. KI-ADI-MUNDI WHO APPEARS AS A HOLOGRAM, speaks.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: We have surveyed all systems in the Republic, and have found no sign of General Grievous.

YODA: Hiding in the Outer Rim, Grievous is. The outlying systems, you must sweep.

OBI-WAN: It may take some time . . . we do not have many ships to spare.

MACE: We cannot take ships from the front line.

OBI-WAN: And yet, it would be fatal for us to allow the droid armies to regroup.

YODA: Master Kenobi, our spies contact, you must, and then wait.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: What about the droid attack on the Wookiees?

MACE: It is critical we send an attack group there, immediately!

OBI-WAN: He's right, that is a system we cannot afford to lose. It's the main navigation route for the southwestern quadrant.

ANAKIN: I know that system well. It would take us little time to drive the droids off that planet.

MACE: Skywalker, your assignment is here with the Chancellor, and Kenobi must find General Grievous.

YODA: Go, I will. Good relations with the Wookiees, I have.

MACE: It is settled then. Yoda will take a battalion of clones to reinforce the Wookiees on Kashyyyk. May the Force be with us all.

ANAKIN is disappointed.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-MASSIVE MAIN HALLWAY AND ALCOVE-LATE AFTERNOON

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN walk through one of the massive Jedi Temple hallways. ANAKIN is furious.

ANAKIN: What kind of nonsense is this, put me on the Council and not make me a Master!?? That's never been done in the history of the Jedi. It's insulting!

OBI-WAN: Calm down, Anakin. You have been given a great honor. To be on the Council at your age . . . It's never happened before. Listen to me, Anakin. The fact of the matter is you're too close to the Chancellor. The Council doesn't like it when he interferes in Jedi affairs.

ANAKIN: I swear to you, I didn't ask to be put on the Council . . .

OBI-WAN: But it's what you wanted! Your friendship with Chancellor Palpatine seems to have paid off.

ANAKIN: That has nothing to do with this.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, regardless of how it happened, you find yourself in a delicate situation.

ANAKIN: You mean divided loyalties.

OBI-WAN: I warned you there was tension between the Council and the Chancellor. I was very clear. Why didn't you listen? You walked right into it.

ANAKIN: The Council is upset I'm the youngest to ever serve.

OBI-WAN: No, it is not. Anakin, I worry when you speak of jealousy and pride. Those are not Jedi thoughts. They're dangerous, dark thoughts.

ANAKIN: Master, you of all people should have confidence in my abilities. I know where my loyalties lie.

OBI-WAN: I hope so . . .

ANAKIN: I sense there's more to this talk than you're saying.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, the only reason the Council has approved your appointment is because the Chancellor trusts you.

ANAKIN: And?

OBI-WAN: Anakin, look, I am on your side. I didn't want to see you put in this situation.

ANAKIN: What situation?

OBI-WAN: (takes a deep breath) The Council wants you to report on all of the Chancellor's dealings. They want to know what he's up to.

ANAKIN: They want me to spy on the Chancellor? That's treason!

OBI-WAN: We are at war, Anakin. The Jedi Council is sworn to uphold the principles of the Republic, even if the Chancellor does not.

ANAKIN: Why didn't the Council give me this assignment when we were in session?

OBI-WAN: This assignment is not to be on record. The Council asked me to approach you on this personally.

ANAKIN: The Chancellor is not a bad man, Obi-Wan. He befriended me. He's watched out for me ever since I arrived here.

OBI-WAN: That is why you must help us, Anakin. Our allegiance is to the Senate, not to its leader who has managed to stay in office long after his term has expired.

ANAKIN: Master, the Senate demanded that he stay longer.

OBI-WAN: Yes, but use your feelings, Anakin. Something is out of place.

ANAKIN: You're asking me to do something against the Jedi Code. Against the Republic. Against a mentor . . . and a friend. That's what's out of place here. Why are you asking this of me?

OBI-WAN: The Council is asking you.

EXT. CORUSCANT-CLONE LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

A JEDI GUNSHIP heads for the huge Clone landing platform.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI GUNSHIP-DAY

YODA, MACE, and OBI-WAN ride in the GUNSHIP as it heads for the Clone landing platform. Mace and Obi-Wan are sitting.

OBI-WAN : Anakin did not take to his assignment with much enthusiasm.

YODA: Too much under the sway of the Chancellor, he is. Much anger there is in him. Too much pride in his powers.

MACE: It's very dangerous, putting them together. I don't think the boy can handle it. I don't trust him.

OBI-WAN: He'll be all right. I trust him with my life.

MACE:I wish I did.

OBI-WAN: With all due respect, Master, is he not the Chosen One? Is he not to destroy the Sith and bring balance to the Force?

MACE: So the prophecy says.

YODA: A prophecy . . . that misread could have been.

OBI-WAN: He will not let me down. He never has.

YODA: I hope right you are. And now destroy the Droid armies on Kashyyyk, I will. May the Force be with you.

The GUNSHIP lands and the ramp lowers. YODA exits the GUNSHIP. MACE and OBI-WAN stand and give him a brief bow then take off in the GUNSHIP.

EXT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-VERANDA-SUNSET

Padme's Speeder pulls up to the landing platform. CAPTAIN TYPHO escorts PADME onto the veranda, where TWO HANDMAIDENS (ELLE and MOTEE) are waiting. PADME turns to CAPTAIN TYPHO.

PADME: Thank you, Captain.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: Rest well. My Lady.

CAPTAIN TYPHO gets back into the Speeder, and it disappears into the cityscape. The HANDMAIDENS, Motee and Elle, approach PADME as the SHADOW OF A FIGURE moves in the background. C-3PO is standing nearby.

PADME: I'll be up in a while.

MOTEE: Yes, my lady.

C-3PO stands, confused, as the HANDMAIDENS turn and exit.

C-3PO: Is there anything I might do for you, my lady?

PADME: Yes, make sure all the security droids are working. Thank you, Threepio.

The golden droid turns and exits.

PADME stands and watches the sunset. The SHADOWY FIGURE moves toward her. She senses something.

ANAKIN: Beautiful, isn't it?

PADME jumps and turns around.

PADME: You startled me.

He sits next to her on the bench.

ANAKIN: How are you feeling?

PADME: He keeps kicking.

ANAKIN: He?! Why do you think it's a boy?

PADME: (laughs) My motherly intuition.

She puts his hand on her belly.

ANAKIN: Whoa! With a kick that strong, it's got to be a girl.

They laugh.

PADME: I heard about your appointment. Anakin. I'm so proud of you.

ANAKIN: I may be on the Council, but . . . they refused to accept me as a Jedi Master.

PADME: Patience. In time, they will recognize your skills.

ANAKIN: They still treat me as if I were a Padawan learner. . . they fear my power, that's the problem.

PADME: Anakin . . .

ANAKIN: Sometimes, I wonder what's happening to the Jedi Order . . . I think this war is destroying the principles of the Republic.

PADME: Have you ever considered that we may be on the wrong side?

ANAKIN: (suspicious) What do you mean?

PADME: What if the democracy we thought we were serving no longer exists, and the Republic has become the very evil we have been fighting to destroy?

ANAKIN: I don't believe that. And you're sounding like a Separatist!

PADME: Anakin, this war represents a failure to listen . . . Now, you're closer to the Chancellor than anyone. Please, please ask him to stop the fighting and let diplomacy resume.

ANAKIN: (growing angry) Don't ask me to do that, Padme. Make a motion in the Senate, where that kind of a request belongs. I'm not your errand boy. I'm not anyone's errand boy!

PADME: What is it?

ANAKIN: Nothing.

PADME: Don't do this . . . don't shut me out. Let me help you.

ANAKIN: You can't help me . . . I'm trying to help you.

They look in each other's eyes.

ANAKIN: (continuing) I sense . . . there are things you are not telling me.

PADME is startled at this.

PADME: I sense there are things you are not telling me.

PADME smiles. ANAKIN is a little embarrassed.

PADME: (continuing) Hold me . . . like you did by the lake on Naboo, so long ago . . . when there was nothing but our love ... No politics, no plotting ... no war.

INT. CORUSCANT-GALAXIES OPERA HOUSE-NIGHT

ANAKIN lands his speeder and exits.
ANAKIN runs up the stairs at the Galaxies Opera House.
ANAKIN runs through the hallway and enters Palpatine's box, where the CHANCELLOR is sitting with Mas Amedda and Sly-Moore, watching the Man Calamari Ballet doing "Squid Lake."

ANAKIN: You wanted to see me, Chancellor.

PALPATINE: Yes, Anakin! Come closer. I have good news. Our Clone Intelligence Units have discovered the location of General Grievous. He is hiding in the Utapau system.

ANAKIN: At last, we'll be able to capture that monster and end this war.

PALPATINE: I would worry about the collective wisdom of the Council if they didn't select you for this assignment. You are the best choice by far  but, they can't always be trusted to do the right thing.

ANAKIN: They try.

PALPATINE: Sit down, (to his aides) Leave us.

ANAKIN sits next to PALPATINE. The Chancellor leans over to him.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Anakin, you know I'm not able to rely on the Jedi Council. If they haven't included you in their plot, they soon will.

ANAKIN: I'm not sure I understand.

PALPATINE: You must sense what I have come to suspect . . . the Jedi Council want control of the Republic . . . they're planning to betray me.

ANAKIN: I don't think . . .

PALPATINE: Anakin, search your feelings. You know, don't you?

ANAKIN: I know they don't trust you . . .

PALPATINE: Or the Senate . . . or the Republic . . . or democracy for that matter.

ANAKIN: I have to admit my trust in them has been shaken.

PALPATINE: Why? They asked you to do something that made you feel dishonest, didn't they?

ANAKIN doesn't say anything. He simply looks down.

PALPATINE: (continuing) They asked you to spy on me, didn't they?

ANAKIN: I don't know ... I don't know what to say.

PALPATINE: Remember back to your early teachings. Anakin. "All those who gain power are afraid to lose it." Even the Jedi.

ANAKIN: The Jedi use their power for good.

PALPATINE: Good is a point of view, Anakin. And the Jedi point of view is not the only valid one. The Dark Lords of the Sith believe in security and justice also, yet they are considered by the Jedi to be. . .

ANAKIN: . . . evil.

PALPATINE: . . . from a Jedi's point of view. The Sith and the Jedi are similar in almost every way, including their quest for greater power. The difference between the two is the Sith are not afraid of the dark side of the Force. That is why they are more powerful.

ANAKIN: The Sith rely on their passion for their strength. They think inward, only about themselves.

PALPATINE: And the Jedi don't?

ANAKIN: The Jedi are selfless . . . they only care about others.

PALPATINE smiles.

PALPATINE: Or so you've been trained to believe. Why is it, then, that they have asked you to do something you feel is wrong?

ANAKIN: I'm not sure it's wrong.

PALPATINE: Have they asked you to betray the Jedi code? The Constitution? A friendship? Your own values? Think. Consider their motives. Keep your mind clear of assumptions. The fear of losing power is a weakness of both the Jedi and the Sith.

ANAKIN is deep in thought.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Plagueis "the wise"?

ANAKIN: No.

PALPATINE: I thought not. It's not a story the Jedi would tell you. It's a Sith legend. Darth Plagueis was a Dark Lord of the Sith, so powerful and so wise he could use the Force to influence the midi-chlorians to create life ... He had such a knowledge of the dark side that he could even keep the ones he cared about from dying.

ANAKIN: He could actually save people from death?

PALPATINE: The dark side of the Force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural.

ANAKIN: What happened to him?

PALPATINE: He became so powerful . . . the only thing he was afraid of was losing his power, which eventually, of course, he did. Unfortunately, he taught his apprentice everything he knew, then his apprentice killed him in his sleep. (smiles) Plagueis never saw it coming. It's ironic he could save others from death, but not himself.

ANAKIN: Is it possible to learn this power?

PALPATINE: Not from a Jedi.

EXT. KASHYYYK-DAY

A WOOKIEE CATAMARAN flanked by WOOKIEE HELICOPTERS approaches the tree housing the HOLOGRAM AREA.

INT. KASHYYYK-HOLOGRAM AREA-DAY

YODA and various JEDI speak via hologram. The discussion includes OBI-WAN, MACE, AGEN KOLAR, YODA- KI-ADI-MUNDI and PLO KOON.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: (holo) Palpatine thinks General Grievous is on Utapau. We have had no reports of this from our agents.

MACE: (holo) How could the Chancellor have come by this information and we know nothing about it? We have had contact with Baron Papanoida and he said no one was there.

ANAKIN: A partial message was intercepted in a diplomatic packet from the Chairman of Utapau.

YODA: Act on this, we must. The capture of General Grievous will end this war. Quickly and decisively we should proceed.

OBI-WAN: Does everyone agree?

All the JEDI concur.

ANAKIN: The Chancellor has requested that I lead the campaign.

They all look at ANAKIN a bit disturbed.

MACE: (a little peeved) The Council will make up its own mind who is to go, not the Chancellor.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: Yes, this decision is ours to make.

ANAKIN is embarrassed and becomes sullen.

YODA: A Master is needed, with more experience.

MACE: Given our resources, I recommend we send only one Jedi . . . Master Kenobi.

ANAKIN: He was not so successful the last time he met Grievous.

OBI-WAN throws ANAKIN a dirty look.

ANAKIN: (continuing) No offense, my Master, but I'm only stating a fact.

OBI-WAN: Oh no, you're quite right, but I do have the most experience with his ways of combat.

YODA: Obi-Wan, my choice is.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: I concur. Master Kenobi should go.

YODA: I agree.

All the JEDI concur.

MACE: Very well. Council is adjourned.

ANAKIN is angry.

MACE: (continuing) Obi-Wan, prepare two clone brigades as quickly as you can. If this report is true, there's no telling how many battle droids he may have with him.

INT. KASHYYYK-HOLOGRAM AREA-DAY

YODA gets out of his chair and walks to the edge of the platform.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE: The droids have started up their main power generators.

YODA: Then now the time is, Commander.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE: Yes, sir.

The battle begins.

EXT. KASHYYYK-BEACH HEAD-DAY

A WOOKIEE CHIEFTAIN lets out a roar as the Wookiee army rushes to face the DROID ARMY. CORPORATE ALLIANCE TANK DROIDS race across the water against the WOOKIEES and CLONE TROOPERS on the beach. DROID GUNSHIPS provide air support, while a SPIDER DROID emerges from the watery depths. A brave WOOKIEE places an explosive on a SEPARATIST TANK and jumps off just before the TANK EXPLODES. From the Hologram Area, Yoda observes the ongoing battle.

EXT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-EARLY MORNING

Padme's apartment building is surrounded by the smog-shrouded city of Coruscant.

INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-LIVING ROOM-EARLY MORNING

PADME and OBI-WAN sit on one of the couches.

OBI-WAN: Has Anakin been to see you?

PADME: Several times . . . I was so happy to hear he was accepted on the Jedi Council.

OBI-WAN: I know ... he deserves it. He is impatient, strong willed, very opinionated, but truly gifted.

They laugh.

PADME: You're not just here to say hello. Something is wrong, isn't it?

OBI-WAN: You should be a Jedi, Padme.

PADME: You're not very good at hiding your feelings.

OBI-WAN: It's Anakin . . . He's becoming moody and detached. He's been put in a difficult position as the Chancellor's representative . . . but I think it's more than that. I was hoping he may have talked to you.

PADME: Why would he talk to me about his work?

OBI-WAN studies her.

OBI-WAN: Neither of you is very good at hiding your feelings either.

PADME: Don't give me that look.

OBI-WAN: I know how he feels about you.

PADME: (nervous) What did he say?

OBI-WAN: Nothing. He didn't have to.

PADME is a little flustered. She stands and Obi-Wan follows. She walks to the balcony.

PADME: I don't know what you're talking about.

OBI-WAN: I know you both too well. I can see you two are in love. Padme, I'm worried about him.

PADME looks down and doesn't answer.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) I fear your relationship has confused him. He's changed considerably since we returned . . .

They stand on the balcony and look off at the early morning city. OBI-WAN starts to leave. PADME stays looking off into the distant city.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Padme, I'm not telling the Council about any of this. I ... I hope I didn't upset you. We're all friends, I care about both of you . . .

PADME: Thank you, Obi-Wan.

OBI-WAN: Please do what you can to help him.

INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-DAY

PADME, MON MOTHMA, and five other Senators (BANA BREEMU, FANG ZAR. CHI EEKWAY, GIDDEAN DANU, BAIL ORGANA) sit in Padme's living room. C-3PO serves drinks to the guests.

PADME: We cannot let this turn into another war.

BAIL ORGANA: Absolutely, that is the last thing we want.

MON MOTHMA: We are hoping to form an alliance in the Senate to stop the Chancellor from further subverting the constitution, that's all.

PADME: I know a Jedi I feel it would be wise to consult.

BANA BREEMU: That would be dangerous.

MON MOTHMA: We don't know where the Jedi stand in all this.

PADME: I only wish to discuss this with one . . . one I trust.

GiDDEAN DANU: Going against the Chancellor without the support of the Jedi is risky.

PADME: The Jedi aren't any happier with the situation than we are . . .

CHI EEKWAY: Patience, Senator.

FANG ZAR: We have so many Senators on our side, surely that will pursuade the Chancellor.

BANA BREEMU: When you present the "petition of the two thousand" to the Chancellor, things may change.

BAIL ORGANA: Let us see what we can accomplish in the Senate, before we include the Jedi.

PADME takes a deep breath in frustration and disappointment.

EXT. CORUSCANT-CLONE LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN walk onto a landing platform overlooking a docking bay where THOUSANDS OF CLONE TROOPS and armored weapons, tanks, etc., are being loaded onto a massive REPUBLIC ASSAULT SHIP.

ANAKIN: You're going to need me on this one, Master.

OBI-WAN: Oh, I agree. However it may turn out just to be a wild bantha chase.

OBI-WAN starts to turn and leave.

ANAKIN: Master!

OBI-WAN stops and ANAKIN walks over to him.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Master, I've disappointed you. I have not been very appreciative of your training . . . I have been arrogant and I apologize . . . I've just been so frustrated with the Council. Your friendship means everything to me.

OBI-WAN: You are strong and wise, Anakin, and I am very proud of you. I have trained you since you were a small boy. I have taught you everything I know. And you have become a far greater Jedi than I could ever hope to be, and you have saved my life more times than I can remember. But be patient, Anakin. It won't be long before the Council makes you a Jedi Master.

OBI-WAN starts down the ramp, then turns back.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Don't worry. I have enough clones with me to take three systems the size of Utapau. I think I'll be able to handle the situation . . . even without your help.

ANAKIN: Well, there's always a first time.

OBI-WAN laughs.

They talk for a few more minutes before ANAKIN watches OBI-WAN depart.

ANAKIN: Obi-Wan, may the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN: Good-bye, old friend. May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN heads down a ramp toward the waiting Republic cruiser.

EXT. CORUSCANT-CLONE LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The Republic cruiser lifts off and heads for space.

INT. REPUBLIC BATTLE CRUISER-HANGAR-SPACE

CLONE TROOPERS stand at attention in rows on the floor of the hangar deck, waiting to board landing craft. OBI-WAN stands next to his BLUE JEDI FIGHTER- talking to SEVERAL CLONE COMMANDERS with their helmets off. A hologram of the planet Utapau is projected by R4-G9 into the middle of the hangar.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Fortunately, most of the cities are concentrated on this small continent here . . . on the far side.

OBI-WAN: I'll keep them distracted until you get there. Just don't take too long.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Come on, boss, when have I ever let you down?

They laugh.

OBI-WAN: (laughing) Cato Nemoidia . . . for starters.

OBI-WAN climbs into his Jedi Fighter.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: That was Anakin who was late. I believe.

OBI-WAN: Very well, the burden is on me not to destroy all the droids before you get there.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: I'm counting on you.

EXT. JEDI FIGHTER-SPACE

OBI-WAN blasts the BLUE JEDI FIGHTER out of the Republic Battle Cruiser and into the hyperspace ring. He heads for the planet Utapau.

EXT. CORUSCANT-CITYSCAPE-CHANCELLOR'S TRANSPORT-DAY

The Chancellor's Transport races through the city and heads for the Senate Office Building landing platform. Waiting on the landing platform is a LONE JEDI. The Transport lands, and CHANCELLOR PALPATINE emerges with FOUR ROYAL GUARDS and MAS AMEDDA. The FOUR ROYAL GUARDS move off in another direction as PALPATINE greets ANAKIN, who has been waiting for him.

PALPATINE: Well, Anakin, did you see your friend off?

ANAKIN: He will soon have Grievous's head.

PALPATINE: We can only hope the Council didn't make a mistake.

ANAKIN: The Council was very sure in its decision.

They exit the landing platform.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-MAIN HALLWAY-DAY

They enter the main hallway of the Senate Office Building. They pass SEVERAL SENATORS, including REPRESENTATIVE JAR JAR BINKS from Naboo.

JAR JAR: Helloo Annie. Good en to see yousa . . .

The Gungan waves to Anakin.

ANAKIN: Hi, Jar Jar.

JAR JAR: Oopsin da Chancellor!! So sorry, Your Highness, sir.

Anakin turns back to the Chancellor.

PALPATINE: There are rumors in the Senate about Master Kenobi. Many believe he is not fit for this assignment.

ANAKIN: Not fit? Why would anyone think that?

PALPATINE: They say his mind has become fogged by the influence of a certain female Senator.

ANAKIN: That's ridiculous. Who?!?

PALPATINE: (slyly) No one knows who she is ... only that she is a Senator.

ANAKIN: That's impossible. I would know.

PALPATINE: Sometimes the closest are the ones who cannot see.

ANAKIN becomes worried.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Idle Senate gossip is rarely true and never accurate. I'm sure your Master will do fine.

INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-DREAM

PADME calls out in pain. OBI-WAN is near her and softly speaks to her.

OBI-WAN: Save your energy.

PADME: I can't!

OBI-WAN: Don't give up, Padme. Don't give up . . .

INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-LANDING ROOM-DAY

ANAKIN is in the living room, working. He sits on the couch where Obi-Wan was sitting. PADME enters and crosses behind him.

ANAKIN: I sense someone familiar . . . Obi-Wan's been here, hasn't he?

PADME: He came by this morning.

ANAKIN: What did he want?

PADME looks at him for a moment. ANAKIN seems tense.

PADME: He's worried about you.

ANAKIN: You told him about us, didn't you?

She continues to walk to the bedroom, he follows.

PADME: He's your best friend, Anakin. He says you're under a lot of stress.

ANAKIN: And he's not?

PADME: You have been moody lately.

ANAKIN: I'm not moody . . .

PADME: Anakin! Don't do this again.

ANAKIN: I don't know ... I feel . . . lost.

PADME: Lost? What do you mean? You're always so sure of yourself. I don't understand.

ANAKIN: Obi-Wan and the Council don't trust me.

PADME: They trust you with their lives. Obi-Wan loves you as a son.

ANAKIN: Something's happening . . . I'm not the Jedi I should be. I am one of the most powerful Jedi, but I'm not satisfied ... I want more, and I know I shouldn't.

PADME: You expect too much of yourself.

They stop in front of the window in the bedroom. ANAKIN puts his hand on her belly.

ANAKIN: I have found a way to save you.

PADME: Save me?

ANAKIN: From my nightmares.

PADME: Is that what's bothering you?

ANAKIN: I won't lose you, Padme.

PADME: I'm not going to die in childbirth, Annie. I promise you.

ANAKIN: No, I promise you! I am becoming so powerful with my new knowledge of the Force, I will be able to keep you from dying.

PADME looks ANAKIN in the eye.

PADME: You don't need more power, Anakin. I believe you can protect me against anything, just as you are.

They embrace and kiss.

EXT. UTAPAU-SPACE

OBI-WAN blasts out of the BLUE JEDI FIGHTER's hyperspace ring and heads for the planet Utapau. The BLUE FIGHTER skims over the planet's surface, flat except for a few giant sinkholes.

INT. UTAPAU-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

OBI-WAN lands his ship on a Platform projecting out of the side of a giant sinkhole. All is quiet. A local administrator, TION MEDON, comes out to greet the ship. OBI-WAN climbs out of his Fighter as a SHORT GROUND CREW looks over his ship. On a ledge above the landing platform, GRIEVOUS's BODYGUARDS watch as OBI-WAN talks to TION MEDON.

TlON MEDON: Greetings, young Jedi. What brings you to our remote sanctuary?

OBI-WAN: Unfortunately, the war.

TlON MEDON: There is no war here unless you've brought it with you.

OBI-WAN: With your kind permission, I should like some fuel and to use your city as a base as I search nearby systems for General Grievous.

A GROUND CREW rushes out and refuels Obi-Wans Fighter. TION MEDON leans close to OBI-WAN and speaks quietly.

TlON MEDON: He is here! We are being held hostage. They are watching us.

OBI-WAN: I understand.

TlON MEDON: The tenth level . . . thousands of Battle Droids . . .

OBI-WAN: Tell your people to take shelter. If you have warriors, now is the time.

OBI-WAN starts back toward his Starfighter as TION MEDON leaves the Landing Platform. GRIEVOUS's BODYGUARDS retreat from the overhead platform. OBI-WAN climbs back into his BLUE JEDI FIGHTER. His Astro Unit (R4-G9) turns to him:

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Geenine, take the Fighter back to the ship. I'm staying here. Tell Cody I've made contact.

The little Astro Droid BEEPS a reply.

EXT. UTAPAU-OBSERVATION DECK-DAY

On a high balcony, TION MEDON looks down on the landing platform. A few steps behind him stands one of GENERAL GRIEVOUS's BODYGUARDS. They watch the canopy lower.

TlON MEDON: I told you, all he wanted was fuel.

BODYGUARD: What was his name?

TlON MEDON: He didn't say.

They watch as the BLUE JEDI FIGHTER takes off.

INT. UTAPAU-LANDING PLATFORM-HALLWAY-DAY

OBI-WAN also watches his ship take off. He is hiding in the hallway. He quietly moves farther into the city.

EXT. UTAPAU STAIRWAY-SINKHOLE RIM-DAY

OBI-WAN quickly rushes up a stairway cut into the side of the sinkhole. It's hard to see him. In an alcove, he carefully surveys the city, then quickly moves on.

INT. UTAPAU-CITY-DRAGON CORRAL-DAY

OBI-WAN makes his way through the city, looking up at the tenth level with electro-binoculars from his utility belt. He tries to figure out how he is going to get up there. He hears strange bellowing cries and he investigates.
He comes across a corral filled with about half a dozen DRAGON-LIKE LIZARDS. SEVERAL WRANGLERS are standing around.
OBI-WAN walks up to the WRANGLERS and uses the Force with his slight hand movements.

OBI-WAN: I need transportation.

WRANGLER: (subtitled, in native tongue) You need transportation.

OBI-WAN: Get it for me.

WRANGLER: (subtitled, in native tongue) I will get it for you.

One of the WRANGLERS turns to the others and chatters away in his strange tongue. OBI-WAN walks along the line of DRAGON/LIZARDS, checking out each one. He looks at their teeth, legs, etc. Finally he pats one on the neck.

OBI-WAN: This one.

The WRANGLER brings the chosen one over to him.

WRANGLER: Boga. She answers to Boga.

OBI-WAN: Good girl, Boga.

OBI-WAN swings onto the back of the LIZARD. The beast rears up and scurries outside to the edge of the sinkhole.

EXT. UTAPAU-SINKHOLE WALL-LIZARD-DAY

The LIZARD BOGA rears up on her hind legs again, then climbs the wall of the sheer cliff and starts moving up toward the tenth level. The city appears to be deserted. OBI-WAN is alert to any movement.

INT. UTAPAU-CONFERENCE ROOM-GRAND CHAMBER-DAY

GENERAL GRIEVOUS stands before the COUNCIL OF SEPARATISTS, including NUTE GUNRAY, RUNE HAAKO. POGGLE THE LESSER, SHU MAI, SAN HILL PO NUDO, WAT TAMBOR, and PASSEL ARGENTE. OBI-WAN hides above the assembly and watches intently.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: It won't be long before the armies of the Republic track us here. I am sending you to the Mustafar system in the Outer Rim. It is a volcanic planet which generates a great deal of scanning interference. You will be safe there.

NUTE GUNRAY: Safe? Chancellor Palpatine managed to escape your grip, General, without Count Dooku. I have doubts about your ability to keep us safe.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Be thankful, Viceroy, you have not found yourself in my grip . . . Your ship is waiting.

OBI-WAN is deep in thought.

INT. UTAPAU-TENTH LEVEL-CONTROL CENTER-DAY

The JEDI removes his cloak and jumps down behind the GENERAL.

OBI-WAN: Hello, there!

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: General Kenobi, you are a bold one. I find your behavior bewildering . . . Surely you realize you're doomed, (to droids) Kill him!

About a HUNDRED BATTLE DROIDS surround OBI-WAN, GENERAL GRIEVOUS, and his BODYGUARDS. OBI-WAN looks around, then walks right up to GENERAL GRIEVOUS.
They stare at each other for a moment.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Enough of this.

The BODYGUARDS raise their power staffs to knock OBI-WAN away, but OBI-WAN ducks as the deadly staffs whistle over his head. The Jedi's lightsaber ignites, and OBI-WAN deftly cuts one BODYGUARD in two. His staff flies into the air and is caught by GENERAL GRIEVOUS. The other THREE BODYGUARDS attack OBI-WAN with an intense fury.
OBI-WAN uses the Force to release apiece of equipment from the ceiling. It drops on the BODYGUARDS, smashing them. OBI-WAN walks toward GRIEVOUS, slashing the last BODYGUARD to pieces. BATTLE DROIDS move toward OBI-WAN.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Back away. I will deal with this Jedi slime myself.

OBI-WAN: Your move.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: You fool. I have been trained in your Jedi arts by Count Dooku himself. Attack, Kenobi.

His arms separate and grab all four lightsabers on his belt. His four arms create a flashing display of swordsmanship.

OBI-WAN: You forget I trained the Jedi that defeated Count Dooku!

OBI-WAN is hard-pressed to defend himself against the deadly onslaught. They fight across the control room as the BATTLE DROID SHARPSHOOTERS try to pick off the Jedi. OBI-WAN mounts a ferocious counterattack and cuts off one of GRIEVOUS's hands. A loud EXPLOSION is heard echoing throughout the sinkhole. GENERAL GRIEVOUS and OBI-WAN glance to the entrance of the control center and see CLONE TROOPS in the distance, attacking DROIDS in the sinkhole. On the far wall of the sinkhole, CLONES can be seen rappelling onto balconies.

OBI-WAN: I may not defeat your droids, but my troops certainly will.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Army or not, you must realize you are doomed.

OBI-WAN: I don't think so.

TWENTY CLONES suddenly rappel into the entrance of the control center, ray guns blazing. Chaos. Laser bolts fly everywhere as the DROIDS return fire. OBI-WAN attacks GENERAL GRIEVOUS, who defends himself rigorously with one of his bodyguard's electro-staffs. OBI-WAN uses the Force to hurl GENERAL GRIEVOUS backwards. He falls onto a lower platform and OBI-WAN jumps down after him.

INT. UTAPAU-TENTH LEVEL-CONTROL CENTER-DAY

More CLONES rappel into the control center and blast away at the remaining DROIDS.
The JEDI cuts down several DROIDS as he races to the entrance of the control center. OBI-WAN spots GENERAL GRIEVOUS racing toward one of the landing platforms in the midst of the battle. GENERAL GRIEVOUS jumps onto a WHEEL SCOOTER and takes off down the wall of the sinkhole. OBI-WAN whistles for his LIZARD BOGA, who runs to him. OBI-WAN jumps on.

EXT. UTAPAU-CLIFF AND LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The chase begins. Obi-Wan drops his lightsaber while riding Boga.

EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-SUNSET

The sun is setting as the lights come on in the massive Senate Office Building. The sky is red.

INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-SUNSET

PALPATINE listens to a delegation from the Senate, which includes PADME and five other Senators: NEE ALAVAR, FANG ZAR, MALEDEE, SWEITT CONCORKILL, and MON CALAMARI. ANAKIN stands to one side of PALPATINE.

PALPATINE: I understand your reservations completely, Senator, and I assure you the appointment of Governors will in no way compete with the duties of the Senate.

PADME: May I take it then, that there will be no further amendments to the Constitution?

PALPATINE: I want this terrible conflict to end as much as you do, My Lady, and when it does I guarantee an immediate return to democracy . . .

PADME: You are pursuing a diplomatic solution to the war, then.

PALPATINE: You must trust me to do the right things, Senator. That is why I am here.

FANGZAR: But surely . . .

The Chancellor turns on FANG ZAR.

PALPATINE: I have said I will do what is right, that should be enough for your . . . committee.

PADME: On behalf of the "delegation of two thousand," I thank you, Chancellor.

PALPATINE: I thank you for bringing this to my attention, Senator.

PADME gives ANAKIN a frustrated look, then turns and exits with the other FIVE SENATORS. PALPATINE turns to ANAKIN.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Their sincerity is to be admired, although I sense there is more to their request than they are telling us.

ANAKIN: What do you mean?

PALPATINE: They are not to be trusted.

ANAKIN: Surely Senator Amidala can be trusted . . .

PALPATINE: These are unstable times for the Republic, Anakin. Some see instability as an opportunity. Senator Amidala is hiding something. I can see it in her eyes.

ANAKIN: I'm sure you're mistaken.

PALPATINE: I'm surprised your Jedi insights are not more sensitive to such things.

ANAKIN: I simply don't sense betrayal in Senator Amidala.

PALPATINE studies ANAKIN carefully and gives him a skeptical look.

PALPATINE: Yes, you do, but you don't seem to want to admit it. There is much conflict in you, Anakin.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI WAR ROOM-EARLY EVENING

KI-ADI-MUNDI, ANAKIN, YODA, MACE, CLONE COMMANDER CODY, and AAYLA SECURA talk via holograms.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Master Windu, may I interrupt? General Kenobi has made contact with General Grievous, and we have begun our attack.

MACE WlNDU: Thank you, Commander. Anakin, deliver this report to the Chancellor. His reaction will give us a clue to his intentions.

ANAKIN: Yes, Master.

ANAKIN leaves the room. COMMANDER CODY's hologram disappears.

MACE WINDU: I sense a plot to destroy the Jedi. The dark side of the Force surrounds the Chancellor.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: If he does not give up his emergency powers after the destruction of Grievous, then he should be removed from office.

MACE WiNDU: That could be a dangerous move ... the Jedi Council would have to take control of the Senate in order to secure a peaceful transition . . .

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: . . . and replace the Congress with Senators who are not filled with greed and corruption.

YODA: To a dark place this line of thought will carry us. Hmmmmm. . . . great care we must take.

INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-EARLY EVENING

ANAKIN brings news to PALPATINE.

ANAKIN: Chancellor, we have just received a report from Master Kenobi. He has engaged General Grievous.

PALPATINE: We can only hope that Master Kenobi is up to the challenge.

ANAKIN: I should be there with him.

PALPATINE: It is upsetting to me to see that the Council doesn't seem to fully appreciate your talents. Don't you wonder why they won't make you a Jedi Master?

ANAKIN: I wish I knew. More and more I get the feeling that I am being excluded from the Council. I know there are things about the Force that they are not telling me.

PALPATINE: They don't trust you, Anakin. They see your future. They know your power will be too strong to control. Anakin, you must break through the fog of lies the Jedi have created around you. Let me help you to know the subtleties of the Force.

They walk into the hallway.

ANAKIN: How do you know the ways of the Force?

PALPATINE: My mentor taught me everything about the Force . . . even the nature of the dark side.

They stop.

ANAKIN: You know the dark side?!?

PALPATINE: Anakin, if one is to understand the great mystery, one must study all its aspects, not just the dogmatic, narrow view of the Jedi. If you wish to become a complete and wise leader, you must embrace a larger view of the Force. Be careful of the Jedi, Anakin. (pausing) They fear you. In time they will destroy you. Let me train you.

ANAKIN: I won't be a pawn in your political game. The Jedi are my family.

PALPATINE: Only through me can you achieve a power greater than any Jedi. Learn to know the dark side of the Force, Anakin, and you will be able to save your wife from certain death.

ANAKIN: What did you say?

PALPATINE: Use my knowledge, I beg you . . .

ANAKIN: You're a Sith Lord!

ANAKIN ignites his lightsaber.

PALPATINE: I know what has been troubling you . . . Listen to me. Don't continue to be a pawn of the Jedi Council! Ever since I've known you, you've been searching for a life greater than that of an ordinary Jedi . . . a life of significance, of conscience.

ANAKIN: You're wrong!

PALPATINE: Are you going to kill me?

ANAKIN: I would certainly like to.

PALPATINE: I know you would. I can feel your anger. It gives you focus, makes you stronger.

ANAKIN raises his lightsaber to PALPATINE's throat. There is a tense moment, then ANAKIN relaxes, and then turns off his lightsaber.

ANAKIN: I am going to turn you over to the Jedi Council.

PALPATINE: Of course you should. But you're not sure of their intentions, are you? What if I am right and they are plotting to take over the Republic?

ANAKIN: I will quickly discover the truth of all this.

PALPATINE: You have great wisdom, Anakin. Know the power of the dark side. The power to save Padme.

ANAKIN stares at him for a moment.
PALPATINE turns and moves to his office.

PALPATINE: (continuing) I am not going anywhere. You have time to decide my fate. Perhaps you'll reconsider and help me rule the galaxy for the good of all . . .

PALPATINE sits behind his desk.

EXT. UTAPAU-CLIFF AND LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

OBI-WAN gives the LIZARD a swift kick with the heel of his boot, and they take off down the vertical side of the sheer cliff. As GENERAL GRIEVOUS reaches the landing platform where his shuttle is waiting. OBI-WAN drops onto the top of the starship with his LIZARD. GENERAL GRIEVOUS spins his scooter around and takes off up the vertical cliff face with OBI-WAN and his LIZARD in hot pursuit. The sinkhole is engulfed in a great battle between CLONES and DROIDS. The PEOPLE OF UTAPAU cower in whatever shelter they can find.

EXT. UTAPAU-MAIN CITY PLAZA-DAY

A LARGE GROUP OF UTAPAUAN TROOPS on LIZARDS attack the DROID ARMY.

OBI-WAN and GENERAL GRIEVOUS race through the city at breakneck speed. Passing through battle zones, narrowly escaping EXPLOSIONS, laser bolts, and TROOPS from both sides.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS lays the Scooter down as he goes around sharp turns. Obi-Wan's LIZARD breathes hard as she tries to keep up. They destroy droids, equipment, and clone troops as the JEDI and the GENERAL cut a swath of destruction through the city.

EXT. UTAPAU-WINDMILLS-DAY

GENERAL GRIEVOUS works his way out onto the rim of the sinkhole, passing some wind blades. The evil Droid General releases the brakes on the lethal blades, and they begin to spin, cutting off Obi-Wan's access to the General. Obi-Wan's LIZARD pulls up short in front of the blades. GENERAL GRIEVOUS laughs and talks into a comlink.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Prepare to move out of orbit. I will be up in a few moments.

OBI-WAN sizes up the situation, looking for a way to get to GENERAL GRIEVOUS.

The GENERAL accelerates off the edge, activating his claws, drops, and clings to another nearby grouping of windmills. Obi-Wan's LIZARD attempts to jump to follow and barely makes it, almost falling into the precipice below.

INT. UTAPAU-CITY TUNNEL SYSTEM-DAY

GENERAL GRIEVOUS roars through the stone block tunnel system, riding up on the curved walls as he goes around corners or passes oncoming traffic. OBI-WAN races after the Droid, his LIZARD moving onto the ceiling as they pass traffic. OBI-WAN catches up with GENERAL GRIEVOUS, and they charge through the tunnel, side by side. OBI-WAN grabs the Droid's electronic staff.

EXT. UTAPAU-SECRET LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

Extending from the wall of a small sinkhole is a secret landing platform with a small Federation Fighter sitting in the middle of it. OBI-WAN and GENERAL GRIEVOUS race out of the tunnel system and onto the landing platform.

OBI-WAN yanks on the staff, then jumps off his LIZARD onto the General's scooter, knocking both warriors to the ground. GENERAL GRIEVOUS pulls out a laser pistol and fires at OBI-WAN. The Jedi reaches out his hand, grabs the General's electro-staff and spins the staff, blocking the laser bolts.

OBI-WAN charges GENERAL GRIEVOUS, swinging the staff and hitting the Droid in the stomach, knocking the gun away. GENERAL GRIEVOUS is hit by the staff, and the Force bends his forearm. He pulls OBI-WAN close to him, and they engage in a furious fight. The electro-staff is knocked away. The two engage in hand-to-hand combat. OBI-WAN struggles to avoid the deadly blows of the brutal, unstoppable Droid.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS's stomachplate is loose. OBI-WAN grabs it and rips it off, revealing the alien life form's guts encased in a bag in the Droid's chest. GENERAL GRIEVOUS grabs OBI-WAN, hoists him over his head, and tosses him across the platform. OBI-WAN dangles off the edge of the platform. He clutches the rim, trying to hold on. The DROID then grabs the staff and charges OBI-WAN. At the last second, OBI-WAN reaches out his hand and uses the Force to retrieve the Droid's laser pistol.

The JEDI fires several blasts in the stomach area of the alien Droid, and he EXPLODES from the inside out. The smoldering Droid falls to the ground. OBI-WAN has killed GENERAL GRIEVOUS. He pulls himself up onto the platform and walks by the destroyed carcass.

OBI-WAN: So uncivilized . . .

OBI-WAN brushes himself off. He throws the pistol onto the platform, picks up the electro-staff, and jumps on BOGA. The trusty beast rears up and takes off into the tunnel system.

INT. JEDI GUNSHIP-LANDING PLATFORM-EARLY EVENING

MACE and the JEDI (AGEN KOLAR, KIT FISTO, AND SAESEE TIIN) are preparing to board a JEDI GUNSHIP to the CHANCELLOR's office. ANAKIN enters the hangar.

ANAKIN: Master Windu, I must talk to you.

MACE WiNDU: What is it, Skywalker? We are in a hurry. We have just received word that Obi-Wan has destroyed General Grievous. We are on our way to make sure the Chancellor returns emergency powers back to the Senate.

ANAKIN: He won't give up his power. I've just learned a terrible truth. I think Chancellor Palpatine is a Sith Lord.

MACE WINDU: A Sith Lord?

ANAKIN: Yes. The one we have been looking for.

MACE WiNDU: How do you know this?

ANAKIN: He knows the ways of the Force. He has been trained to use the dark side.

MACE WiNDU: Are you sure?

ANAKIN: Absolutely.

MACE WiNDU: Then our worst fears have been realized. We must move quickly if the Jedi Order is to survive.

ANAKIN: Master, the Chancellor is very powerful. You will need my help if you are going to arrest him.

MACE WiNDU: For your own good, stay out of this affair. I sense a great deal of confusion in you, young Skywalker. There is much fear that clouds your judgment.

ANAKIN: I must go, Master.

MACE WiNDU: No. If what you told me is true, you will have gained my trust, but for now remain here.

ANAKIN: Yes, Master.

MACE WiNDU: Wait for us in the Council Chamber until we return.

ANAKIN: Yes, Master.

ANAKIN watches as the JEDI leave in their ship.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI COUNCIL/PADME'S APARTMENT-EARLY EVENING

(INTERCUT)

PADME is alone in her apartment, thinking of Anakin. ANAKIN sits alone in the Jedi Council Chamber thinking of PADME.

PALPATINE: (V.O.) You do know, don't you, if the Jedi destroy me, any chance of saving her will be lost.

PADME: I truly, deeply love you. Before I die. I want you to know.

C-3PO: My Lady, are you. . . . Are you all right?

ANAKIN: I can't do this ... I can't let her die.

ANAKIN rushes out of the Council Chamber and to his speeder. The hangar door opens and he lifts off.

EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-LANDING PLATFORM-EARLY EVENING

The sky is still blue as a JEDI GUNSHIP lands on the Senate Office Building landing platform.
FOUR JEDI exit the SHUTTLE and enter the Senate Office Building. MACE WINDU, AGEN KOLAR, KIT FISTO, and SAESEE TIIN, like gunfighters out of the Old West, walk through the massive hallway, four across.

INT. CORUSCANT-LOBBY TO CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-EARLY EVENING

The FOUR JEDI enter the lobby, raising their arms, and send the Chancellor's aide, DAR WAC, flying against the wall, along with TWO REPUBLIC GUARDS. They storm into the Chancellor's office.

INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLORS OFFICE-EARLY EVENING

MACE arrives with THREE JEDI to arrest PALPATINE.

PALPATINE: Master Windu. I take it General Grievous has been destroyed then. I must say, you're here sooner than expected.

MACE WINDU: In the name of the Galactic Senate of the Republic, you are under arrest, Chancellor.

MACE WINDU and the other JEDI ignite their lightsabers.

PALPATINE: Are you threatening me, Master Jedi?

MACE: The Senate will decide your fate.

PALPATINE: (burst of anger) I am the Senate!

MACE: Not yet!

PALPATINE stands, a laser sword appears out of his cloak sleeve, and he spins toward the JEDI.

PALPATINE: It's treason, then.

A close shot of PALPATINE as the fight begins. Close shots of THREE JEDI getting cut down by PALPATINE. PALPATINE and MACE continue to fight.

Jedi Master MACE WINDU and the Sith Lord fight their way down the hallway and into the main office area. PALPATINE is able to use the Force to slam MACE against the wall, but he recovers before the Chancellor can cut him down.

ANAKIN lands his speeder, jumps out, and runs down a long corridor toward the Chancellor's office.

In the heat of battle, MACE cuts the window behind the Chancellor's desk, and it crashes away. MACE is forced out onto the ledge, which is twenty stories up. They fight over the precipice. ANAKIN arrives to see PALPATINE and MACE fighting.

They stop as MACE forces PALPATINE to drop his sword. PALPATINE and MACE start yelling at each other.

MACE WINDU: You are under arrest, My Lord.

PALPATINE: Anakin! I told you it would come to this. I was right. The Jedi are taking over.

MACE WlNDU: You old fool. The oppression of the Sith will never return. Your plot to regain control of the Republic is over . . . you have lost . . .

PALPATINE: No! No! You will die!

PALPATINE raises his hands, and lightning bolts shoot out. They are blocked by MACE's lightsaber. PALPATINE is pushed back against the window sill.

PALPATINE: He is a traitor, Anakin.

MACE WlNDU: He's the traitor. Stop him!

PALPATINE: Come to your senses, boy. The Jedi are in revolt. They will betray you, just as they betrayed me.

MACE WlNDU: Aarrrrggghhhhh . . .

PALPATINE: You are not one of them, Anakin. Don't let him kill me.

MACE WlNDU: Aarrrrggghhhhh . . .

PALPATINE: I am your pathway to power. I have the power to save the one you love. You must choose. You must stop him.

MACE WlNDU: Don't listen to him, Anakin.

PALPATINE: Help me! Don't let him kill me. I can't hold on any longer. Ahhhhhhh . . . ahhhhhhh . . . ahhhhhhh . . .

MACE pushes PALPATINE out to the edge of the ledge. As the Jedi moves closer, the bolts from Palpatine's hands begin to arch back on him. The Chancellor's face begins to twist and distort. His eyes become yellow as he struggles to intensify his powers.

PALPATINE: I can't ... I give up. Help me. I am weak ... I am too weak. Don't kill me. I give up. I'm dying. I can't hold on any longer.

MACE WlNDU: You Sith disease. I am going to end this once and for all.

ANAKIN: You can't kill him, Master. He must stand trial.

MACE WlNDU: He has too much control of the Senate and the Courts. He is too dangerous to be kept alive.

PALPATINE: I'm too weak. Don't kill me. Please.

ANAKIN: It is not the Jedi way . . .

MACE raises his sword to kill the CHANCELLOR.

ANAKIN: (continuing) He must live . . .

PALPATINE: Please don't, please don't . . .

ANAKIN: I need him . . .

PALPATINE: Please don't . . .

ANAKIN: NO!!!

Just as MACE is about to slash PALPATINE, ANAKIN steps in and cuts off the Jedi's hand holding the lightsaber.

As MACE stares at ANAKIN in shock, PALPATINE springs to life.
The full force of Palpatine's powerful Bolts blasts MACE. He attempts to deflect them with his one good hand, but the force is too great. As blue rays engulf his body, he is flung out the window and falls twenty stories to his death. No more screams. No more moans. PALPATINE lowers his arm.

PALPATINE: Power! Unlimited power!

His face has changed into a horrible mask of evil. ANAKIN looks on in horror. PALPATINE cackles.

ANAKIN: What have I done?

ANAKIN sits.

PALPATINE: You are fulfilling your destin, Anakin. Become my apprentice. Learn to use the dark side of the Force.

ANAKIN: I will do whatever you ask.

PALPATINE: Good.

ANAKIN: Just help me save Padme's life. I can't live without her. I won't let her die. I want the power to stop death.

PALPATINE: To cheat death is a power only one has achieved, but if we work together, I know we can discover the secret.

ANAKIN kneels before PALPATINE.

ANAKIN: I pledge myself to your teachings. To the ways of the Sith.

PALPATINE: Good. Good. The Force is strong with you. A powerful Sith you will become. Henceforth, you shall be known as Darth . . . Vader.

ANAKIN: Thank you. my Master.

PALPATINE: Rise, Darth Vader.

Palpatine moves over to his desk.

EXT. KASHYYYK-MEETING HALL-DAY

YODA winces, closes his eyes, and holds his head. He feels a disturbance in the Force.

INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-EVENING

PALPATINE is putting on his dark cloak: he is now fully DARTH SIDIOUS.

PALPATINE: Because the Council did not trust you, my young apprentice, I believe you are the only Jedi with no knowledge of this plot. When the Jedi learn what has transpired here, they will kill us, along with all the Senators.

ANAKIN: I agree. The Jedi's next move will be against the Senate.

PALPATINE: Every single Jedi, including your friend Obi-Wan Kenobi, is now an enemy of the Republic. You understand that, don't you?

ANAKIN: I understand, Master.

PALPATINE: We must move quickly. The Jedi are relentless; if they are not all destroyed, it will be civil war without end. First, I want you to go to the Jedi Temple. We will catch them off balance. Do what must be done, Lord Vader. Do not hesitate. Show no mercy. Only then will you be strong enough with the dark side to save Padme.

ANAKIN: What about the other Jedi spread across the galaxy?

PALPATINE: Their betrayal will be dealt with. After you have killed all the Jedi in the Temple, go to the Mustafar system. Wipe out Viceroy Gunray and the other Separatist leaders. Once more, the Sith will rule the galaxy, and we shall have peace.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE ENTRY-NIGHT

ANAKIN goes to the Jedi Temple with a battalion of Clone Troopers.

EXT. UTAPAU-TENTH LEVEL-LANDIXG PLATFORM-DAY

The battle between the CLONES and the DROIDS rages throughout the sinkhole. OBI-WAN rides up to CLONE COMMANDER CODY.

OBI-WAN: Commander, contact your troops. Tell them to move to the higher levels.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Very good, sir.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY starts to move away, then remembers something and returns to OBI-WAN.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: (continuing) Oh, by the way, I think you'll be needing this.

He hands OBI-WAN his lightsaber, and the LIZARD rears up.

OBI-WAN: Thank you, Cody, (smiling) Now let's get a move on. We've got a battle to win here.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Yes, sir!

OBI-WAN and the LIZARD ride off down the wall of the giant sinkhole.
The battle rages throughout the city. CLONE COMMANDER CODY (2224,) takes out his comlink and listens to the HOLOGRAM OF DARTH SIDIOUS as, far below, OBI-WAN can been seen battling DROIDS on a landing platform.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Commander Cody, the time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: It will be done, My Lord.

The HOLOGRAM disappears, and CLONE COMMANDER CODY gestures to a nearby Clone Trooper.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Blast him!

The battle rages all around OBI-WAN. DROIDS and CLONES are everywhere. OBI-WAN is riding on a LIZARD, cutting down DROIDS as he races across the battlefield. Suddenly a volley of laser blasts from behind him knocks him and his LIZARD off the wall of the sinkhole. He looks around just in time to see his CLONE TROOPS are firing on him.
OBI-WAN falls hundreds of feet to the bottom of the water-filled sinkhole.

EXT. MYGEETO-DAWN

The sky slowly awakens on the crystal world of Mygeeto. A battle rages. Clone troops battle the droid armies across a long bridge. KI-ADI-MUNDi uses his light saber to deflect enemy fire. CLONE COMMANDER BACARA (1138) exits a Gunship near the entrance to the city. He rallies his TROOPS to attack the city, then gets a message on his comlink. He stops and moves to one side as a HOLOGRAM OF DARTH SIDIOUS appears on the comlink in the palm of his hand. He moves further into the shadows.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Commander 1138 . . .

CLONE COMMANDER BACARA: Yes, sir.

DARTH SlDIOUS: The time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.

CLONE COMMANDER BACARA: It will be done, My Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades, and the CLONE COMMANDER snaps the comlink closed and looks to the main plaza of the city, where KI-ADI-MUNDI is leading the charge. The clones stop. KI-ADI-MUNDI turns around and is blasted by clone fire. He's killed before he can defend himself.

EXT. FELUCIA-FOREST-DAY

A column of CLONE WALKERS marches across the forest floor. The STRANGE CALLS of the alien forest creatures of FELUCIA suddenly stop. The Jedi AAYLA SECURA and her CLONE TROOPS brace for an ambush.

AAYLA: Steady. . . . steady . . .

They all look around for signs of the enemy. CLONE COMMANDER BLY moves up behind the Jedi.

AAYLA: (continuing) Bly, do you think they're Droids?

BLY: No.

BLY blasts AAYLA in the back. The OTHER CLONES fire on her as she hits the ground.

Another Jedi, BARRISS OFFEE, is cutting down a patrol of DROIDS when a CLONE WALKING TANK and SEVEN CLONE TROOPERS round a corner and blast the Jedi away.

EXT. KASHYYYK-MEETING HALL-DAY

YODA drops his gimer stick, clutches his chest, and rests against a wall.

EXT. KASHYYYK-EDGE OF VILIAGE-DAY

The battle appears to be over. WOOKIEES stack destroyed Droids while CLONES assess the damage to their equipment. A Jedi, LUMINARA UNDULI, talks with EIGHT CLONE OFFICERS standing in a circle around her. Suddenly they reveal their hidden pistols and blast her before she can react.

The Jedi QUINLAN VOS is riding on top of a CLONE TURBO TANK. The main cannon of a second tank slowly swings to point right at him and a COUPLE OF CLONES.
The cannon fires, and QUINLAN VOS and the CLONES disappear in a huge EXPLOSION.

INT. CATO NEIMOIDIA-COCKPIT CLONE FIGHTER-DAY

The CLONE PILOT watches a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

DARTH SIDIOUS: Execute Order Sixty-Six.

CLONE PILOT: It will be done, My Lord.

INT. CATO NEIMOIDIA-JEDI STARFIGHTER-DAY

PLO KOON heads his ship toward a battle on a landing platform.

PLO KOON: There they are. Land on the nearest platform.

EXT. CATO XEIMOIDIA-JEDI STARFIGHTER-DAY

The FOUR CLONE PILOTS with PLO KOON drop back and blast him out of the sky.

EXT. SALEUCAMI-FOREST

Three Speeder Bikes race through the forest. A Jedi, STASS ALLIE is in the lead. The TWO CLONES following her drop back and blast her, causing her to crash in a huge EXPLOSION.

INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-NIGHT

DARTH SIDIOUS stands alone in his private office, illuminated only from a hologram projector beam from above. A small HOLOGRAM OF COMMANDER GREE stands in front of him.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE: Yes, My Lord.

DABTH SIDIOUS: The time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.

EXT. KASHYYYK-MEETING HALL BALCONY-DAY

A vista of waterways, high green mesas, and giant tree cities serves as a backdrop for the fierce battle, CLONES AND WOOKIEES against TRADE FEDERATION DROID ARMIES, with treaded tank-like vehicles. CLONE COMMANDER GREE holds his comlink.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE: It will be done, My Lord.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE snaps his comlink shut.

YODA watches from the balcony. The battle rages as CLONES and WOOKIEES attack DROIDS coming across the water on CORPORATE ALLIANCE TANK DROIDS. CHEWBACCA and TARFFUL stand on either side of the Jedi Master as he watches the battle below. CLONE COMMANDER GREE and ONE OFFICER walk onto the balcony toward YODA. YODA stands looking over the battlefield below. When they are close enough, the CLONES reveal their weapons and fire.

But faster than the CLONES can reveal their weapons, YODA ignites his lightsaber, leaps in the air, and beheads both CLONES. CHEWBACCA and TARFFUL fire their weapons as more CLONES enter the hall. The Wookiees call out to YODA to follow them. CHEWBACCA picks YODA up and carries him away.

EXT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-NIGHT

A JEDI is surrounded and gunned down by CLONE TROOPERS.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-NIGHT

ANAKIN walks through the Jedi Temple, where he finds and kills SHAAK TI.
He exits Shaak Ti's room and enters a hallway, where the battle is taking place.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-BATTLE-NIGHT

ANAKIN enters a room full of YOUNGLINGS huddled in a corner.

YOUNGLINGS: Master Skywalker, there are too many of them. What are we going to do?

ANAKIN looks back at them with a stern expression on his face and ignites his lightsaber.

INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-PRE-DAWN

C-3PO and PADME look out the apartment window.

C-3PO: The Chancellor's office indicated Master Anakin returned to the Jedi Temple. Don't worry, My Lady. I am sure he will be all right.

PADME bursts into tears.

EXT. CORUSCANT-CITYSCAPE-PRE-DAWN

The city planet is covered in a hazy glow. A column of black smoke can be seen rising in the distance. BAIL ORGANA's Speeder flies overhead, straight toward the smoke.

EXT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-LANDING PLATFORM-PRE-DAWN

The Jedi Temple is on fire. Large plumes of smoke billow toward the sky as BAIL ORGANA lands his Speeder on a Jedi Temple platform. FOUR CLONE TROOPERS stand guard at the entrance to the Temple. They lower their guns as BAIL gets out of his Speeder and walks toward them.

BAIL ORGANA: What's going on here?!?

CLONE SERGEANT: There's been a rebellion. Don't worry, sir, the situation is under control.

The CLONES bar the Senator from entering the Temple.

CLONE SERGEANT: (continuing) I'm sorry, sir. No one is allowed entry.

The CLONES point their guns at BAIL and cock them.

CLONE SERGEANT: (continuing) It's time for you to leave, sir.

BAIL ORGANA: And so it is.

BAIL reluctantly heads hack toward his Speeder. Suddenly, several SHOTS RING OUT. BAIL turns and sees a ten-year-old Jedi, ZETT JUKASSA, fighting the CLONES. Several more CLONES join in the fight, followed by CLONE COMMANDER APPO (1119), who points at BAIL.

CLONE COMMANDER APPO: Get him! Shoot him!

SEVERAL CLONES start firing at BAIL. The Senator jumps for cover behind his Speeder, starting the engines and pulling out his laser pistol.

The YOUNG JEDI cuts down several CLONES, including APPO, before he is overrun and shot.

The Speeder takes off with BAIL clinging to the side. The CLONES fire at it as it disappears into the cityscape.

EXT. CORUSCANT-CITYSCAPE-PRE-DAWN

BAIL ORGANA struggles to pull himself into the Speeder as it races along through the cityscape. Finally, he climbs in, just as the Speeder is about to hit a building. BAIL steers clear of the building and races away.

EXT. UTAPAU-UNDERWATER SINKHOLE-DAY

The Jedi dives below the surface amid a barrage of laser fire. He dives deeper under the water, fumbling in his utility belt for a breathing device. He finds it and puts it in his mouth. He swims underwater until the CLONE TROOPS give up and stop filing.

EXT. UTAPAU-UNDERWATER CAVES-DAY

OBI-WAN removes the breathing apparatus after coming up from underwater. He starts to climb the rock wall.

OBI-WAN climbs the wall to the second cave just as TWO LITTLE SEEKER DRONES pop out of the water with their searchlights glowing. OBI-WAN presses himself against the wall of the smaller cave as the TWO SEEKER DRONES search the grotto. One of the SEEKERS begins to enter the cave in which OBI-WAN is hiding. OBI-WAN presses further into the wall. The light shines on the opposite wall and moves to the back of the cave, illuminating a huge NOS MONSTER. OBI-WAN holds his breath. The SEEKER is confused for a moment, then the NOS MONSTER lunges at the SMALL DROID and consumes it in one bite.

The NOS MONSTER'S lunge takes him past OBI-WAN, out of the cave, and into the water.

The SECOND SEEKER shines its light on the NOS MONSTER as the evil creature tries to grab the LITTLE DRONE. OBI-WAN slinks off toward the back of the cave. He comes upon a nest of BABY NOS MONSTERS. They SCREECH and make horrible sounds. OBI-WAN jumps over them and continues on his way through the tunnel system.

EXT. KASHYYYK-LAKE ON VILLAGE EDGE-DUSK

CLONES in modified one-man AT-ST's and Swamp Speeders flash their searchlights across the gloomy lake. The light of one of the AT-ST's spots something floating in the water. It is what's left of a Wookiee catamaran. The body of a dead Wookiee (TARFFUL) is lying across the stern of the wreckage of the flying boat. There is some movement on the boat. The CLONE SERGEANT on the AT-ST fires a warning shot past the boat.

AT-ST CLONE SERGEANT: Everyone out of there!

A CRAZY LITTLE CREATURE about two feet high pops its head over the rail. The creature is covered with mud. His long hair is frizzed out in all directions.

CREATURE: Wookiee good . . . eat Wookiee. (crazy little laugh)

CLONE SERGEANT: Did you find something?

CREATURE: It's nothing, nothing. (laughs)

CLONE SERGEANT: It's nothing, nothing. All these Wookiees are dead. Move to the east.

CLONE TROOPER: Yes, sir.

Suddenly, CHEWBACCA climbs up behind the AT-ST CLONE, dripping wet, and throws the CLONE SERGEANT into the water. CHEWIE BARKS.

CREATURE: Right you are, Chewbacca. Faster that will be.

TARFFUL jumps up in the boat, and the CREATURE takes off his hair. It is Yoda.

YODA: Stink, this mud does. A moment to bathe, give me.

YODA, covered with mud, jumps into the water. TARFFUL climbs onto the AT-ST with CHEWBACCA. YODA is out of the water and putting his robes back on.

YODA: (continuing) Not far, are we, from the emergency ship. Quickly . . .

YODA whistles and a large ALIEN FLYING INSECT called CAN-CELL appears. YODA jumps on the insect's back and they take off. The WOOKIEES follow on the AT-ST. The CLONES continue to search the swamp.

EXT. KASHYYYK-HILLS OVERLOOKING LAKE-DUSK

The AT-ST marches up the hill and stops. The WOOKIEES jump down. YODA lands on CAN-CELL nearby. CHEWBACCA goes to a tree and pulls down one of its branches.
The ground opens up, and a small WOOKIEE ESCAPE POD rises into the field. YODA opens the door of the pod.

YODA: Good-bye. Chewbacca and Tarfful, miss you I will. Good friends you are. For your help, much gratitude and respect, I have.

The Wookiees BARK as the Jedi climbs into the WOOKIEE POD and takes off into the dusk sky.

EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-UNDERGROUND STARSHIP LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

BAIL ORGANA walks out of a tunnel onto a huge underground platform with two of his AIDES. He is stopped by TWO ROYAL GUARDS.

ROYAL GUARD: Identification . . .

BAIL ORGANA: Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan.

BAIL and his AIDES hand them their ID cards. The ROYAL GUARDS check them over and give them back, then BAIL and his CREW walk on board his Starship.

EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-UNDERGROUND LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The platform rises to the surface of the Office Building. The ALDERAAN STARCRUISER takes off and disappears into the crisp morning sky.

INT ALDERAAN-STARCRUISER-HALLWAY-DAY

BAIL ORGANA is greeted by CAPTAIN ANTILLES and TWO ALDERAAN TROOPERS.

BAIL ORGANA: Were you able to get hold of a Jedi homing beacon?

CAPTAIN ANTILLES: Yes, sir. We've encountered no opposition. The clones are still a bit confused. It appears no one is in command.

BAIL ORGANA: That will change soon. Hopefully we will be able to intercept a few Jedi before they walk into this catastrophe.

EXT. UTAPAU-SINKHOLE WALL-LATE DAY

OBI-WAN hides from a group of CLONE TROOPERS.

CLONE CAPTAIN: Did you find Kenobi?

CLONE TROOPER: No one could have survived that fall.

He watches them pass.

CLONE CAPTAIN: Start loading your men on the ship.

CLONE TROOPER: Yes, sir.

OBI-WAN tries to sneak back to the secret platform, down a flight of stairs.

EXT. UTAPAU-SECRET LANDING PLATFORM-LATE DAY

OBI-WAN makes his way out of the cave and onto General Grievous's secret landing platform. He runs to the Starfighter and climbs into the one-man ship. The Starfighter takes off and disappears into the sky.

EXT. UTAPAU-SPACE

OBI-WAN flies away from the planet Utapau in General Grievous's tiny Starfighter.

INT. GENERAL GRIEVOUS'S STARFIGHTER-SPACE

OBI-WAN activates the controls on the Starfighter. He punches in several coordinates and codes. A BEEPING SOUND is heard. It quickly speeds up until it is a steady tone. OBI-WAN speaks into his comlink.

OBI-WAN: Emergency Code Nine Thirteen ... I have no contact on any frequency. Are there any Jedi out there? . . . anywhere . . .

A BURST OF STATIC is heard- and a FUZZY HOLOGRAM image appears.

BAIL: (hologram) . . . Kenobi . . .

OBI-WAN: (continuing) I've locked on. Repeat.

The FUZZY HOLOGRAM image comes into focus, and it is BAIL ORGANA.

BAIL ORGANA: Master Kenobi??

OBI-WAN: Senator Organa! My Clone Troops turned on me ... I need help.

BAIL ORGANA: We have just rescued Master Yoda. It appears this ambush has happened everywhere. We're sending you our coordinates.

INT. CORUSCANT-PADMESAPARTMENT-PRE-DAWN

PADME stands before the window of her living room, watching the plume of smoke from the Jedi Temple. C-3PO enters from the bedroom.

C-3PO: My Lady, there's a Jedi fighter docking on the veranda.

PADME turns and rushes to the bedroom.

EXT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-VERANDA-PRE-DAWN

THREEPIO walks out to ANAKIN's ship and talks with ARTOO. ARTOO beeps.

THREEPIO: Hush! Not so loud!

PADME rushes onto the veranda as ANAKIN exits his GREEN JEDI FIGHTER. They embrace.

PADME: Are you all right? I heard there was an attack on the Jedi Temple . . . you can see the smoke from here.

ANAKIN: I'm fine. I'm fine. I came to see if you and the baby are safe.

PADME: Captain Typho's here, we're safe. What's happening?

C-3PO continues to talk to R2-D2 on the GREEN FIGHTER.

C-3PO: What is going on?

ARTOO SQUEAKS and BEEPS.

C-3PO: (continuing) You can't be anymore confused than I am.

ANAKIN: The situation is not good. The Jedi have tried to overthrow the Republic . . .

PADME: I can't believe that!

ANAKIN: I couldn't either at first, but it's true. I saw Master Windu attempt to assassinate the Chancellor myself.

C-3PO leans over and whispers to ARTOO.

C-3PO: Something important is going on! I heard a rumor they are going to banish all droids.

ARTOO BEEPS rather loudly. C-3PO puts his fingers to his lips.

C-3PO: (continuing) Shhhhhh . . . not so loud.

ARTOO BEEPS quietly.

C-3PO: (continuing) Whatever it is, we'll be the last to know.

PADME: Anakin, what are you going to do?

ANAKIN looks down for a moment and then walks away from Padme.

ANAKIN: I will not betray the Republic . . . my loyalties lie with the Chancellor and with the Senate . . . and with you.

ANAKIN turns and walks back to Padme.

PADME: What about Obi-Wan?

ANAKIN: I don't know . . . Many Jedi have been killed. We can only hope that he's remained loyal to the Chancellor.

PADME: How could this have happened?

ANAKIN: The Republic is unstable, Padme. The Jedi aren't the only ones trying to take advantage of the situation. There are also traitors in the Senate.

PADME stands and reacts ever so slightly.

PADME: What are you saying?

ANAKIN: You need to distance yourself from your friends in the Senate. The Chancellor said they will be dealt with when this conflict is over.

PADME: What if they start an inquisition? I've opposed this war. What will you do if I become a suspect?

ANAKIN: That won't happen. I won't let it.

PADME: Oh, Anakin, I'm afraid.

ANAKIN takes PADME in his arms.

ANAKIN: Have faith, my love. Everything will soon be set right. The Chancellor has given me a very important mission. The Separatists have gathered in the Mustafar system. I'm going there to end this war. Wait for me until I return . . . things will be different, I promise.

They kiss.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Please, wait for me.

PADME: I will.

ANAKIN gets into his Fighter as THREEPIO backs away.

C-3PO: (to Artoo) Well, he is under a lot of stress, Artoo.

ARTOO beeps.

C-3PO: (continuing) Take care, my little friend.

ARTOO BEEPS a good-bye, and the fighter takes off. PADME is left alone on the veranda. She starts to cry. THREEPIO comes up to her.

C-3PO: (continuing) My Lady, is there anything I might do?

PADME: No thank you, Threepio.

G-3PO: A snack, perhaps?

PADME: No.

THREEPIO starts to move off.

C-3PO: I feel so helpless.

EXT. ALDERAAN-STARCRUISER-SPACE

OBI-WAN's ship docks with Bail Organa's Starcruiser.

INT. ALDERAAN-STARCRUISER-HALLWAY-DAY

The door to the main hallway slides open. OBI-WAN enters and is greeted by YODA and BAIL ORGANA. The three walk down the hallway.

BAIL ORGANA: You made it.

YODA: Master Kenobi, dark times are these. Good to see you. it is.

OBI-WAN: You were attacked by your Clones, also?

YODA: With the help of the Wookiees, barely escape, I did.

OBI-WAN: How many other Jedi managed to survive?

YODA: Heard from no one, have we.

BAIL ORGANA: I saw thousands of troops attack the Jedi Temple. That's why I went looking for Yoda.

OBI-WAN: Have we had any contact from the Temple?

YODA: Received a coded retreat message, we have.

BAIL ORGANA: It requests all Jedi to return to the Temple. It says that the war is over . . .

OBI-WAN: Well, then we must go back! If there are other stragglers, they will fall into the trap and be killed.

BAIL ORGANA: It's too dangerous to return.

YODA: Suggest dismantling the coded signal, do you?

OBI-WAN: Yes, Master. There is too much at stake here, and we need a clearer picture of what has happened.

YODA: I agree. In a dark place we find ourselves ... a little more knowledge might light our way.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LAVA FIELDS-DAY

Workers move across the lava beds, gathering the magma. A column of aliens riding giant MUSTAFAR FLEAS marches forward.

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

A HOLOGRAM of DARTH SIDIOUS is in the center of the room. NUTE GUNRAY and the REST OF THE SEPARATIST COALITION watch SIDIOUS.

NUTE GUNRAY: The plan has gone as you had promised, My Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS: You have done well, Viceroy. When my new apprentice, Darth Vader, arrives, he will take care of you.

The hologram disappears.

INT. CRUISER-COCKPIT

The Republic Cruiser heads toward Coruscant. OBI-WAN, BAIL, YODA, and TWO PILOTS sit in the cockpit.

PILOT: We are receiving a message from the Chancellor's office, sir.

BAIL ORGANA: Send it through.

PILOT: Yes, sir.

The PILOT pushes some buttons. MAS AMEDDA appears on screen.

MAS AMEDDA: Senator Organa . . . the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic requests your presence at a special session of Congress.

BAIL ORGANA: Tell the Chancellor I will be there.

MAS AMEDDA: Very well. He will be expecting you.

MAS AMEDDA's image disappears from the screen.

BAIL ORGANA: It could be a trap.

OBI-WAN: No, I don't think so. The Chancellor will not be able to control the thousands of star systems without keeping the Senate intact.

YODA: If a special session of Congress there is, easier for us to enter the Jedi Temple it will be.

EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE LANDING PLATFORM-LATE DAY

OBI-WAN, BAIL, and YODA land on Coruscant. The elevator door opens, and they step out.

GUARD: Welcome back, Senator. May I see your clearance?

BAIL ORGANA: Certainly.

GUARD: Thank you, you may proceed. We will take custody of the Jedi.

OBI-WAN: It would be better if we stayed with the Senator.

GUARD: It would be better if they stayed with you.

BAIL and his AIDES go into the Senate. YODA and OBI-WAN head for the Jedi Temple.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-JEDI STARFIGHTER-SPACE

ANAKIN's Jedi Starfighter heads for the hazy blood-red planet of Mustafar.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

ANAKIN flies over the volcanoes of Mustafar and lands his Jedi Starfighter on a complex of Landing Platforms. His cockpit opens as R2-D2 pops from the ship with a happy BEEP.

ANAKIN: Artoo . . . stay with the ship.

ARTOO lets out a sad little BEEP and moves back toward the ship.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

ANAKIN, putting on his hood, walks across a walkway upon arriving on Mustafar.

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN appears in the doorway of the control center.

NUTE GUNRAY: Welcome, Lord Vader. We've been expecting you.

Everyone in the room looks to him as he raises his hand toward a control panel, and all the exits close. The confused SEPARATISTS look around in bewilderment.

EXT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-LATE DAY

Smoke from the smoldering shell of the Jedi Temple fills the air with a brown haze.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-MAIN ENTRANCE-LATE DAY

A DOZEN CLONE TROOPERS stand guard at the entrance of the Jedi Temple. Suddenly there is a flash of a lightsaber, a flurry of confusion, and all of the Clone Troopers are dead on the floor. YODA and OBI-WAN stand in the middle of the carnage.

OBI-WAN: There are several battalions of Clone Troopers on every level. Many are dressed as Jedi.

YODA: Dismantle the coded signal quickly. That group back there, soon discovered will be.

EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE BUILDING-SUNSET

The awesome Senate Building looms over the city. The endless traffic continues to clutter the skyline.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-SUNSET

The Chancellor is in the podium in the center of the vast arena giving a speech. MAS AMEDDA stands to the right of SIDIOUS. BAIL ORGANA walks through the hallway of the Main Senate Chamber. He enters the Senate Pod of Naboo and sits next to PADME. JAR JAR, CAPTAIN TYPHO and TWO HANDMAIDENS are in the pod also.

PALPATINE: . . . and the Jedi Rebellion has been foiled.

BAIL ORGANA: I was held up. What's happening?

PADME: The Chancellor has been elaborating on a plot by the Jedi, to overthrow the Senate.

BAIL ORGANA: That's not true!

PADME: He's been presenting evidence all afternoon.

BAIL ORGANA: And the Senate will go along with it, just like they always do.

PALPATINE: The remaining Jedi will be hunted down and defeated. (applause) Any collaborators will suffer the same fate.

(applause)

These have been trying times, but we have passed the test.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-HALLWAY-SUNSET

YODA and OBI-WAN make their way through the Temple, avoiding the HUNDREDS OF CLONE TROOPERS. They use the Force to distract the CLONES when they can.
YODA and OBI-WAN walk through the ruins of the Temple until they come across the bodies of some students.

OBI-WAN: Not even the younglings survived.

YODA: Killed not by clones, this Padawan. By a lightsaber, he was.

OBI-WAN: . . .Who?? Who could have done this?

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN ignites his lightsaber, NUTE and the OTHERS panic. The DROIDS at the controls and the GUARDS grab their weapons, but it is too late. They are cut down in a flash. The Separatists bang on the doors, and NUTE and RUNE HAAKO flee under a table.

ANAKIN, stone-faced, moves through the room like the grim reaper. Bodies drop everywhere. SCREAMS are cut short as the head of the Banking Clan dies.

Then POGGLE THE LESSER loses his head; WAT TAMBOR, SHU MAI, and the REST OF THE SEPARATISTS run into the conference room.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-SUNSET

PALPATINE: The attempt on my life has left me scarred and deformed, but I assure you my resolve has never been stronger.

Applause.

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

In the hallway, ANAKIN cuts down DROIDS and SEPARATISTS alike. He is unstoppable. ANAKIN turns his head-his eyes are yellow.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-SUNSET

PALPATINE continues his speech at the podium.

PALPATINE: The war is over. (applause) The Separatists have been defeated, (applause) and the Jedi rebellion has been foiled. We stand on the threshold of a new beginning.

There is a long period of APPLAUSE.

PADME: Well, this is the moment we discover if he intends to return the Republic to a democracy.

PALPATINE: In order to ensure our security and continuing stability, the Republic will be reorganized into the first Galactic Empire, for a safe and secure society which I assure you will last for ten thousand years.

There is a loud, sustained CHEER from the Senate. BAIL ORGANA and PADME sit, dumbfounded.

PALPATINE: (continuing) An empire that will continue to be ruled by this august body, and a sovereign ruler chosen for life . . .

The Senate CHEERS again. BAIL and PADME are devastated. PADME begins to cry.

PALPATINE: (continuing) An empire ruled by the majority . . . Ruled by a new constitution . . .

The Senate APPLAUDS.

PADME: So this is how liberty dies, with thunderous applause . . .

BAIL ORGANA: We cannot let this happen.

He starts to stand up. PADME stops him.

PADME: Not now! There will be a time.

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-CONFERENCE ROOM-DAY

After everyone in the Main Control Room is dead, ANAKIN moves to the small conference room where WAT TAMBOR. SHU MAI, and some OTHER SEPARATISTS are hiding. RUNE HAAKO tries to run but is trapped by a dead-end as ANAKIN advances.

RUNE HAAKO: Stop! Enough, this is not right!

RUNE is cut down. NUTE GUNRAY crawls out from under the table and opens the Main Door, allowing DESTROYER DROIDS to enter. WAT TAMBOR is cut down, along with SHU MAI. DESTROYER DROIDS appear in the doorway and blast away, causing total destruction. When the firing is over, ANAKIN is gone. Blown away? No. ANAKIN drops from the ceiling behind the TWO DROIDS and cuts them to pieces before they know what hit them.

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-HALLWAY-DAY

NUTE GUNRAY is the last Separatist leader alive. ANAKIN moves on to find NUTE GUNRAY hiding in an alcove.

NUTE GUNRAY: The war is over. Lord Sidious promised us peace ... we only want . . .

NUTE GUNRAY is cut down in midsentence.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-COMPUTER ROOM-NIGHT

OBI-WAN stands in a large computer area as YODA looks on, in the hatchway to the Main Control Center.

OBI-WAN: I've recalibrated the code warning all surviving Jedi to stay away.

YODA: Good . . . For the Clones to discover the recalibration, a long time it will take. To change it back, longer still. Hurry.

INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-CONTROL CENTER-NIGHT

OBI-WAN enters the Main Control Center with YODA and heads for the hologram area.

OBI-WAN: Wait, Master. There is something I must know . . .

YODA: If into the security recordings you go, only pain will you find.

OBI-WAN: I must know the truth, Master.

OBI-WAN moves to a panel and flips some switches. He sees a HOLOGRAM of ANAKIN slaughtering JEDI, including the YOUNG ONES. OBI-WAN and YODA react.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) It can't be . . . It can't be . . .

As ANAKIN surveys the carnage, a DARK-ROBED SITH LORD enters. ANAKIN turns to DARTH SIDIOUS and kneels before him.

ANAKIN: The traitors have been taken care of, Lord Sidious.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Good . . . good . . . You have done well, my new apprentice. Do you feel your power growing?

ANAKIN: Yes, My Master.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Now, Lord Vader, now go and bring peace to the Empire.

OBI-WAN watches in horror. Tears well up in his eyes.

OBI-WAN: I can't watch any more.

OBI-WAN switches off the hologram. The TWO JEDI stand in silence for a few moments.

YODA: Destroy the Sith, we must.

OBI-WAN: Send me to kill the Emperor. I will not kill Anakin.

YODA: To fight this Lord Sidious, strong enough, you are not.

OBI-WAN: He is like my brother ... I cannot do it.

YODA: Twisted by the dark side, young Skywalker has become. The boy you trained, gone he is . . . Consumed by Darth Vader.

OBI-WAN: How could it have come to this?

YODA: To question, no time there is.

OBI-WAN: I do not know where the Emperor has sent him. I don't know where to look.

YODA: Use your feelings, Obi-Wan, and find him, you will. Visit the new Emperor, my task is. May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN: May the Force be with you, Master Yoda.

INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-AFTERNOON

A DC0052 Intergalactic Speeder pulls up to the veranda landing of Padme's apartment.

EXT. CORUSCANT -PADME'S APARTMENT-VERANDA-AFTERNOON

The cockpit of the sleek yellow Galactic Speeder opens, and a HOODED FIGURE emerges and walks onto the veranda. An ALARM GOES OFF deep in the apartment. The FIGURE stops before a security curtain that protects the veranda. C-3PO enters the veranda and approaches the FIGURE.

C-3PO: Hello, might I help you . . . Oh, it's you, Master Kenobi. Come in, quickly.

The security curtain disappears, and the FIGURE lifts his hood. It is OBI-WAN. The alarm stops sounding.

OBI-WAN: Has Anakin been here . . . ?

C-3PO: Yes . . . right after the attack on the Jedi Temple.

PADME comes down the stairs in a robe. THREEPIO leaves.

PADME: Master Kenobi . . .

She embraces Obi-Wan.

PADME: (continuing) Oh, Obi-Wan, thank goodness . . . you're alive.

OBI-WAN: The Republic has fallen. Padme . . . The Jedi Order is no more . . .

PADME: I know, it's hard to believe everything to which we've dedicated our lives is gone.

OBI-WAN: I believe we have been part of a plot hundreds of years in the making.

PADME: The Senate is still intact, there is some hope.

OBI-WAN: No. Padme . . . It's over . . . The Sith now rule the galaxy as they did before the Republic.

PADME: The Sith!?!

OBI-WAN: I'm here looking for Anakin . . . When was the last time you saw him?

PADME: Yesterday.

OBI-WAN: And do you know where he is now?

PADME: (looks down) No.

OBI-WAN: Padme, I need your help. He's in grave danger.

PADME: From the Sith?

OBI-WAN: From himself . . . Padme, Anakin has turned to the dark side.

PADME: You're wrong! How could you even say that?

OBI-WAN: I have seen a security hologram of him killing younglings.

PADME: Not Anakin! He couldn't!

OBI-WAN: He was deceived by a lie. We all were. It appears that the Chancellor is behind everything, including the war. Palpatine is the Sith Lord we've been looking for. After the death of Count Dooku, Anakin became his new apprentice.

PADME: I don't believe you ... I can't.

OBI-WAN: Padme, I must find him.

PADME: You're going to kill him, aren't you?

OBI-WAN: He has become a very great threat.

As PADME moves to sit down, she reveals her pregnancy.

PADME: I can't . . .

OBI-WAN: Anakin is the father, isn't he?

PADME looks away.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) I'm so sorry.

OBI-WAN turns and leaves as PADME stares transfixed, not knowing what to do. She is worried and tormented. OBI-WAN takes off in the Speeder. She studies the japor snippet that is hanging around her neck.

INT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

R2-D2 waits forlornly for his Master in front of the Jedi Starfighter.

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN surveys the slaughter with a crazed look in his eyes.

INT. MUSTAFAR-CONTROL CENTER-BALCONY-DAY

ANAKIN stares out at Mustafar, standing on the control room balcony.

EXT. CORUSCANT-LANDING PLATFORM-SUNSET

A small Naboo Skiff rests on a landing platform in the vast congestion of Coruscant. PADME gets out of her Speeder, followed by CAPTAIN TYPHO and C-3PO.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: My Lady, let me come with you.

PADME: There is no danger. The fighting is over, and . . . this is personal.

TYPHO bows.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: As you wish, My Lady . . . but I strongly disagree.

PADME: I'll be all right, Captain.

He goes to the speeder and gets in.

PADME: (continuing) This is something I must do myself. Besides, Threepio will look after me.

C-3PO: Oh, dear.

TYPHO takes off and PADME and THREEPIO board the small NABOO SKIFF. A shadow moves out from under the SKIFF. It is OBI-WAN. He quickly jumps on the retracting ramp as the SKIFF takes off.

INT. NABOO SKIFF

THREEPIO chatters away as PADME breaks down in tears, the painful reality sinking in.

C-3PO: Green light. Do you know that I think I'm beginning to get the hang of this flying business.

OBI-WAN stows away on Padme's ship. The ship lifts from the landing platform and heads into the traffic lanes.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE ARENA-CHANCELLOR'S HOLDING OFFICE-SUNSET

A HOLOGRAM OF ANAKIN appears before PALPATINE in his office at the bottom of the Senate Arena.

DARTH VADER: The Separatists are taken care of, My Master.

DARTH SlDIOUS: It is finished, then. You have restored peace and justice to the galaxy. You have done well, Lord Vader.

DARTH VADER: Thank you, My Master.

INT. MUSTAFAR-COXFERENCE ROOM-DAY

A Hologram of Sidious speaks with Anakin in the Mustafar control room.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Send a message to the ships of the Trade Federation. Tell them the Separatist leaders have been wiped out. Grievous and Dooku have been destroyed. All droid units must shut down immediately.

DARTH VADER: Very good, My Lord.

ANAKIN sees Padme's ship arriving on the screen and goes out to meet her.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The sleek NABOO SKIFF lands on the Mustafar landing platform near Anakin's GREEN STARFIGHTER. ANAKIN runs up to the SKIFF as the ramp lowers. PADME runs to him.

ANAKIN: Padme, I saw your ship . . .

They embrace.

PADME: Oh, Anakin!

ANAKIN: It's all right, you're safe now. What are you doing out here?

PADME: I was so worried about you. Obi-Wan told me terrible things.

ANAKIN: What things?

PADME: He said you have turned to the dark side . . . that you killed younglings.

ANAKIN: Obi-Wan is trying to turn you against me.

PADME: He cares about us.

ANAKIN: Us??!

PADME: He knows . . . He wants to help you.

ANAKIN: Is Obi-Wan going to protect you? He can't ... he can't help you. He's not strong enough.

PADME: Anakin, all I want is your love.

ANAKIN: Love won't save you, Padme. Only my new powers can do that.

PADME: At what cost? You are a good person. Don't do this.

ANAKIN: I won't lose you the way I lost my mother! I've become more powerful than any Jedi has ever dreamed of and I've done it for you. To protect you.

PADME: Come away with me. Help me raise our child. Leave everything else behind while we still can.

ANAKIN: Don't you see, we don't have to run away anymore. I have brought peace to the Republic. I am more powerful than the Chancellor. I can overthrow him, and together you and I can rule the galaxy. Make things the way we want them to be.

PADME: I don't believe what I'm hearing . . . Obi-Wan was right. You've changed.

ANAKIN: I don't want to hear any more about Obi-Wan. The Jedi turned against me. Don't you turn against me.

PADME: I don't know you anymore. Anakin, you're breaking my heart. I'll never stop loving you, but you are going down a path I can't follow.

ANAKIN: Because of Obi-Wan?

PADME: Because of what you've done . . . what you plan to do. Stop, stop now. Come back! I love you.

ANAKIN: (seeing Obi-Wan) Liar!

PADME turns around and. sees OBI-WAN standing in the doorway of the Naboo Cruiser.

PADME: No!

ANAKIN: You're with him. You've betrayed me! You brought him here to kill me!

PADME: NO! Anakin. I swear ... I ...

ANAKIN reaches out, and PADME grabs her throat as she starts to choke.

OBI-WAN: Let her go, Anakin.

ANAKIN: What have you and she been up to?

OBI-WAN: Let her go!

ANAKIN releases his grip on the unconscious PADME and she crumples to the ground.

ANAKIN: You turned her against me.

OBI-WAN: You have done that yourself.

ANAKIN: You will not take her from me.

ANAKIN throws off his cloak.

OBI-WAN: Your anger and your lust for power have already done that.

OBI-WAN flings off his cloak.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) You have allowed this Dark Lord to twist your mind until now . . . until now you have become the very thing you swore to destroy.

They circle each other until OBI-WAN is near PADME. He places his hand on her.

ANAKIN: Don't lecture me, Obi-Wan. I see through the lies of the Jedi. I do not fear the dark side as you do. I have brought peace, justice, freedom, and security to my new Empire.

OBI-WAN: Your new Empire?

ANAKIN: Don't make me kill you.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, my allegiance is to the Republic ... to democracy.

ANAKIN: If you're not with me, you're my enemy.

OBI-WAN: Only a Sith Lord deals in absolutes. I will do what I must.

(ignites his lightsaber)

ANAKIN: You will try.

ANAKIN ignites his lightsaber.

ANAKIN lashes out at OBI-WAN, and they begin a ferocious sword fight. ANAKIN throws CONTAINERS at OBI-WAN using the Force.
They work their way off the landing platform and into the main entry hallway. ANAKIN kicks OBI-WAN, and OBI-WAN drops to a lower level.
ARTOO BEEPS his concern and rushes to the unconscious PADME's aid.

INT. CORRIDOR-SENATE ARENA-CHANCELLOR'S HOLDING OFFICE-NIGHT

YODA enters, using the Force to throw two RED GUARDS against the wall, knocking them unconscious. DARTH SIDIOUS turns his chair toward YODA. MAS AMEDDA stands behind SIDIOUS's desk.

YODA: I hear a new apprentice, you have. Emperor, or should I call you Darth Sidious.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Master Yoda, you survived.

YODA: Surprised?

DARTH SlDIOUS: Your arrogance blinds you, Master Yoda. Now you will experience the full power of the dark side.

The Dark Lord raises his arms, and LIGHTNING BOLTS shoot out, surrounding YODA.
YODA is picked up and thrown across the room, hitting the wall and sliding down in a crumpled heap. DARTH SIDIOUS chuckles.

INT. MUSTAFAR-PASSAGES TO MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN move their fight toward the main control center. As the laser swords fly, bits of the hallway are cut up. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN jump and use every trick in the Jedi book.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-NABOO CRUISER-DAY

R2-D2, tries to drag PADME on board the Naboo Cruiser. C-3PO pokes his head out of the ship's doorway.

C-3PO: What are you doing? You're going to hurt her. Wait!!

C-3PO starts down the ramp.

INT. CORRIDOR-SENATE ARENA-CHANCELLOR'S HOLDING OFFICE-NIGHT

MAS AMEDDA leaves the room. PALPATINE approaches a stunned YODA.

DARTH SlDIOUS: I have waited a long time for this moment, my little green friend. At last, the Jedi are no more.

YODA: Not if anything I have to say about it, Lord Sidious.

YODA uses the Force to throw DARTH SIDIOUS back, knocking him clear over his desk and onto the floor in a heap.

YODA: (continuing) At an end your rule is and not short enough it was, I must say.

DARTH SIDIOUS flies through the air, cape flapping, heading toward the exit. At the last second, YODA flies into the exit and stops the Dark Lord.

YODA: (continuing) If so powerful you are, why leave??

YODA ignites his lightsaber.

DARTH SlDIOUS: You will not stop me. Darth Vader will become more powerful than either of us.

DARTH SIDIOUS ignites his lightsaber.

YODA: Faith in your new apprentice, misplaced may be, as is your faith in the dark side of the Force.

Their swords CLASH. The battle is extremely fast and furious.

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

View screens EXPLODE around ANAKIN and OBI-WAN as they work their way into the Control Room. The fighting is intense. OBI-WAN is on the defensive as he jumps up on the table view screen in the center of the room.

ANAKIN: Don't make me destroy you, Master. You're no match for the dark side.

OBI-WAN: I've heard that before, Anakin . . . but I never thought I'd hear it from you.

ANAKIN forces OBI-WAN back into the Conference Room where the quarters are much closer. Sparks fly everywhere. ANAKIN jumps onto the conference table. OBI-WAN slides across the table, knocking ANAKIN over. OBI-WAN grabs ANAKINs lightsaber as he falls. OBI-WAN uses the Force to summon his dropped lightsaber. ANAKIN does the same.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-MAIN ARENA-NIGHT

PALPATINE seeks refuge in the vast Senate Chamber. He gets into the Chancellor's Podium and it starts to rise up into the Arena. YODA makes a giant leap into the control pod. The sword fighting is intense in the confined space.

INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

The battle intensifies.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) The flaw of power is arrogance.

OBI-WAN stands looking at his former apprentice for a moment.

ANAKIN: You hesitate . . . the flaw of compassion.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN lock sabers. OBI-WAN puts out his hand to use the Force to push ANAKIN away. ANAKIN puts out his hand to block OBI-WAN.
Both combatants are blasted backwards onto the control panels.
They regain their footing and the battle continues. ANAKIN kicks OBI-WAN away.
They battle around the room, and eventually the door to the exterior is knocked open. They continue battling out onto the balcony.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMRER-MAIN ARENA-NIGHT

YODA unleashes a ferocious assault on PALPATINE, causing him to almost go over the edge. The Dark Lord drops his lightsaber but recovers with a BLAST OF ENERGY from his hands that surrounds YODA. YODA is deflecting the Sith Lord's lightning bolts.

The energy bolts begin to arc back on the Emperor. It looks as if the Dark Lord is doomed.

YODA: Destroy you I will, just as Master Kenobi, your apprentice will destroy.

YODA jumps to a lower Senate Pod. PALPATINE reaches out with one hand, and a Senate pod is released from its mooring and heads toward the Podium. PALPATINE uses the Force to hurl pod after pod at YODA, who ducks and jumps from one flying pod to another.

YODA leaps away from the pods. He uses the Force to hold one pod suspended in the air. The pod spins and YODA throws it back at PALPATINE, who leaps away at the last moment.

YODA leaps after him, but PALPATINE quickly turns and aims the full force of his energy bolts at the tiny green Jedi, catching him in mid-air and throwing him back hard against the Podium. The force causes YODA to drop his lightsaber. YODA blocks the lightning and throws PALPATINE backwards off the podium. YODA is knocked off the Podium and falls several hundred feet to the base of the Podium. PALPATINE follows in his pod, searching for YODA.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER BALCONY-DAY

ANAKIN forces OBI-WAN down a narrow balcony outside the Control Room. He rips objects off the wall and throws them at OBI-WAN as he pushes him further and further along the walkway.

The balcony ends, and OBI-WAN is trapped. He looks over the balcony and into a river of lava.

ANAKIN cuts apiece of the balcony railing off, along with a control panel.
ALARMS SOUND, and a protective ray shield around the superstructure disappears. It tumbles into the molten abyss, disappearing in a puff of smoke. A small pipe connects the Control Center to the Main Collection Plant. OBI-WAN has no choice but to tightrope-walk out across the lava river while fighting ANAKIN.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER BALCONY, PIPE ACROSS LAVA RIVER, MAIN COLLECTION PLANT-DAY

ANAKIN, following OBI-WAN, jumps down onto the flexing pipe, lands, and resumes fighting.

INT. MUSTAFAR-PIPE ACROSS LAVA RIVER-DAY

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN work their way across the small pipe, fighting ferociously as they go. OBI-WAN slips, throws his lightsaber up in the air, grabs on to the pipe, swings around, grabs on to an upper pipe, retrieves his lightsaber, and lands back on the original pipe. They continue to fight across the pipe until they reach the Main Collection Plant.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-WIRING CHUTE-NIGHT

YODA squishes his way through a mass of wires in a small chute. He talks on his comlink.

YODA: Hurry. Careful timing we will need.

BAIL ORGANA: (in speeder) There aren't many troops on this side. Activate your homing beacon when you're ready.

INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-MAIN ARENA-NIGHT

A Senate pod with COMMANDER THIRE (4477) and SEVERAL OTHER CLONE TROOPERS climb up to where MAS AMEDDA and PALPATINE are waiting. Beneath the Main Podium, TWENTY CLONE TROOPERS search for Yoda 's body.

CLONE COMMANDER THIRE: There is no sign of his body, sir.

MAS AMEDDA: Then he is not dead.

PALPATINE: Double your search.

CLONE COMMANDER THIRE: Yes sir. Right away, sir.

PALPATINE: (to Mas Amedda) Tell Captain Kagi to prepare my shuttle for immediate takeoff.

MAS AMEDDA: Yes, Master.

PALPATINE: I sense Lord Vader is in danger.

PALPATINE walks into the Arena hallway. COMMANDER THIRE descends down to the floor of the Arena, where an intense search is taking place. SEVERAL CURIOUS SENATORS rubberneck in scattered pods.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-COLLECTION PANELS-DAY

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN battle on the top of the multispired collection panels, jumping from one to the other. At the end of the collection cluster, a huge spray of lava covers the attachments that hold up the collectors. The frame begins to melt. It's raining lava. Both ANAKIN and OBI-WAN run for cover under the collection cluster. They continue to fight in the lava rain, darting from cover to attack, then quickly retreating to cover.
Support for the entire structure begins to fall away, and the collection cluster falls into the lava river. The Jedi continue their fight, climbing to the highest point on the tower as the rest begins to melt away as it rides the swift current down the river.

It bends toward the lava as they get out toward the end. The fighting gets fierce. OBI-WAN gets to the end and is trapped. The tower slowly starts to sink under the lava.

EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-NIGHT

BAIL ORGANA, in his open Cockpit Speeder, flies along next to the roof eave of the huge Senate Building. He slows and moves closer to a long row of recessed lights. Suddenly YODA falls out of one of the light recesses and lands in the Speeder. BAIL guns it and heads away from the Senate Building.

INT. CORUSCANT-BAIL ORGANA'S SPEEDER-NIGHT

YODA straightens himself out.

YODA: Into exile I must go. Failed, I have.

YODA and BAIL fly into the traffic of the city.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-COLLECTION PANELS-DAY

OBI-WAN realizes he is getting very close to the edge of the lava falls. He grabs a rope and leaps from the collection arm. ANAKIN follows.
ANAKIN and OBI-WAN continue their sword fight hanging from cables as they swing past each other.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-NABOO SKIFF-DAY

C-3PO carefully lifts PADME into his arms. R2-D2 nervously looks on. BEEPING.

C-3PO: I am being careful. I've got a good hold on her, but . . . I'm worried about my back. I hope it's able to hold up under this weight.

C-3PO carries PADME into the Naboo Skiff.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-COLLECTION PANELS-DAY

From their cables, ANAKIN and OBI-WAN both spot something that causes them to stop fighting. The lava river ahead drops off in a tremendous lava fall.

SNAPPING AND METAL GROANS are heard as the main part of the collector starts to break away and move toward the lava fall. OBI-WAN looks around and sees a small floating platform making its way toward the tower.

OBI-WAN does a double hack-flip and lands squarely on the floating platform. He immediately leans to one side and moves away from the tower.

ANAKIN realizes he is doomed as the entire tower heads for the falls. In the distance he sees some CONSTRUCTION DROIDS. He swings back to the tower, climbs up and makes a running leap and miraculously lands on A WORKER DROID. The DROID is confused and chatters to his CO-WORKER. The giant collector goes over the lava flow and disappears in the mist of sparks below.

OBI-WAN heads for the bank of the lava river, but Anakin's DROID is faster. He catches up with his old Master.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN continue the swordfight. They battle away, balancing on the tiny platform and puzzled DROID. ANAKIN, standing on the Droid, approaches OBI-WAN on the work platform.

OBI-WAN: I have failed you, Anakin. I was never able to teach you to think.

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN confront each other on the lava river.

ANAKIN: I should have known the Jedi were plotting to take over . . .

OBI-WAN: From the Sith!!! Anakin, Chancellor Palpatine is evil.

ANAKIN: From the Jedi point of view! From my point of view, the Jedi are evil.

OBI-WAN: Well, then you are lost!

ANAKIN: This is the end for you, My Master. I wish it were otherwise.

ANAKIN jumps and flips onto OBI- WAN's platform. The fighting continues again until OBI-WAN jumps toward the safety of the black sandy edge of the lava river. He yells at Anakin.

OBI-WAN: It's over, Anakin. I have the high ground.

ANAKIN: You underestimate my power!

OBI-WAN: Don't try it.

ANAKIN follows, and OBI-WAN cuts his young apprentice at the knees, then cuts off his left arm in the blink of an eye. ANAKIN tumbles down the embankment and rolls to a stop near the edge of the lava.

ANAKIN struggles to pull himself up the embankment with his mechanical hand. His thin leather glove has been burned off. He keeps sliding down in the black sand.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) . . . You were the Chosen One! It was said that you would, destroy the Sith, not join them. It was you who would bring balance to the Force, not leave it in Darkness.

OBI-WAN picks up Anakin's light saber and begins to walk away. He stops and looks back.

ANAKIN: I hate you!

OBI-WAN: You were my brother, Anakin. I loved you.

ANAKIN'S clothing blows into the lava river and ignites. Suddenly ANAKIN bursts into flames and starts SCREAMING.

INT. MUSTAFAR-VOLCANO EDGE-DAY

OBI-WAN looks in horror as ANAKIN becomes engulfed in flames. OBI-WAN can't watch him as he struggles to climb the embankment, covered in flames.

He runs back to Padme's ship as ANAKIN drops, smoldering, near the top of the lava pit.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-NABOO SKIFF-DAY

OBI-WAN makes his way to the SKIFF. He looks for Padme. THREEPIO sticks his head out the door of the SKIFF.

C-3PO: Master Kenobi! We have Miss Padme on board. Please, please hurry. We should leave this dreadful place.

OBI-WAN runs on board the Naboo Skiff.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-NABOO SKIFF-DAY

PADME lies on a cot or bed inside the ship. OBI-WAN walks over and checks on her.

PADME: Obi-Wan? Is Anakin all right?

OBI-WAN looks at her sadly and does not answer. He brushes her hair back. Padme drops back into unconsciousness. ARTOO watches over her.
OBI-WAN rides in the co-pilot's station. He sits looking pensive. THREEPIO drives.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-VOLCANO EDGE-DAY

ANAKIN crawls up the bank, his body smoking. A shuttle flies overhead and lands.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-IMPERIAL SHUTTLE-DAY

An Imperial Shuttle closes its wings and settles on the highest of the Mustafar Landing Platforms. A PLATOON OF CLONE TROOPERS exits the craft, followed by DARTH SIDIOUS.

INT. MUSTAFAR-VOLCANO PIT-DAY

DARTH SIDIOUS walks in front of the CLONE TROOPERS on his way to get to Anakin at the edge of the lava pit.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-VOLCANO PIT-DAY

DARTH SIDIOUS discovers what remains of ANAKIN and checks him out. He turns to the CLONES.

DARTH SIDIOUS: Anakin! Anakin! There he is. He's still alive. Get a medical capsule, immediately.

CLONE CAPTAIN: Yes sir. Right away.

Several of the CLONES rush off as DARTH SIDlOUS puts his hand on ANAKIN's forehead.

INT. POLIS MASSA-OBSERVATION DOME-NIGHT

On the isolated asteroid of Polis Massa, YODA meditates.

YODA: Failed to stop the Sith Lord, I have. Still much to learn, there is ...

QUI -GON: (V.O.) Patience. You will have time. I did not. When I became one with the Force I made a great discovery. With my training, you will be able to merge with the Force at will. Your physical self will fade away, but you will still retain your consciousness. You will become more powerful than any Sith.

YODA: Eternal consciousness.

QUI-GON: (V.O.) The ability to defy oblivion can be achieved, but only for oneself. It was accomplished by a Shaman of the Whills. It is a state acquired through compassion, not greed.

YODA: . . . to become one with the Force, and influence still have . . . A power greater than all, it is.

QUI-GON: (V.O.) You will learn to let go of everything. No attachment, no thought of self. No physical self.

YODA: A great Jedi Master, you have become, Qui-Gon Jinn. Your apprentice I gratefully become.

YODA thinks about this for a minute, then BAIL ORGANA enters the room and breaks his meditation.

BAIL ORGANA: Excuse me, Master Yoda. Obi-Wan Kenobi has made contact.

EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The CLONES have placed ANAKIN in a medical capsule. They float the wounded Sith Lord into the belly of the IMPERIAL CRUISER. DARTH SIDIOUS follows the capsule into the ship. The ship takes off.

EXT. POLIS MASSA-LANDING PLATFORM-NIGHT

OBI-WAN lands the Naboo Cruiser on the landing platform of the isolated post of Polis Massa. YODA and BAIL ORGANA, along with a FEW GROUND CREW, are waiting as the ramp lowers and OBI-WAN emerges, carrying the unconscious PADME in his arms, followed by ARTOO and THREEPIO.

BAIL ORGANA: We'll take her to the medical center, quickly.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM-CORUSCANT-IMPERIAL REHAB CENTER-DAY

The shuttle lands. DARTH SIDIOUS and CLONE TROOPERS leave the shuttle. ANAKIN's body is carried along in a floating medical capsule.

INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-NIGHT

POLIS MEDICS work, on PADME in an operating theater. OBI-WAN and one of the MEDICAL DROIDS enter an observation room where BAIL and YODA are waiting.

MEDICAL DROID: Medically, she is completely healthy. For reasons we can't explain, we are losing her.

OBI-WAN: She's dying?

MEDICAL DROID: We don't know why. She has lost the will to live. We need to operate quickly if we are to save the babies.

BAIL ORGANA: Babies??!!

MEDICAL DROID: She's carrying twins.

YODA: Save them, we must. They are our last hope.

The MEDICAL DROID rushes back to the operating room. ARTOO and THREEPIO watch, greatly puzzled. ARTOO BEEPS.

C-3PO: It s some kind of reproductive process, I think.

INT. CORUSCANT-IMPERIAL REHAB CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN, in the medical capsule, is lifted onto a table in the Rehab Center. DROIDS go to work on him. ANAKIN has new legs and a new arm.

INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-NIGHT

The TWINS are being delivered as BAIL ORGANA, YODA, ARTOO, and THREEPIO watch. OBI-WAN is in the operating theater with PADME. He takes her hand.

OBI-WAN: Don't give up, Padme.

PADME winces from the pain. The MEDICAL DROID is holding the BABY.

MEDICAL DROID: It's a boy.

PADME: Luke . . .

PADME can only offer up a faint smile. She struggles to touch the baby on the forehead.

MEDICAL DROID: ... and a girl.

PADME: . . . Leia.

R2-D2, THREEPIO and BAIL ORGANA watch from an adjoining space.

INT. CORUSCANT-IMPERIAL REHAB CENTER-DAY

VADER, dressed in his black body armor, lies on the table. Nose plugs are inserted and the mask drops from above, sealing tightly. The helmet is fitted and VADER begins breathing.

INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-NIGHT

OBI WAN leans over PADME and softly speaks to her.

OBI-WAN: You have twins, Padme They need you . . . hang on.

PADME: I can't . . .

PADME winces again and takes OBI-WAN's hand. She is holding Anakin's japor snippet.

OBI-WAN: Save your energy.

PADME: Obi-Wan . . . there . . . is good in him. I know there is ... still . . .

A last gasp, and she dies. Obi-Wan studies the necklace.

INT. CORUSCANT-IMPERIAL REHAB CENTER-DAY

DARTH SIDIOUS hovers around the periphery of a group of MEDICAL DROIDS who are working on ANAKIN. DARTH SIDIOUS paces in the foreground. A DROID approaches the Dark Lord.

MEDICAL DROID: My Lord, the construction is finished ... he lives.

DARTH SIDIOUS: Good. Good.

The DROID moves back to the table where DARTH VADER lies. The table begins to move upright. DARTH SIDIOUS moves in next to DARTH VADER.

DARTH SIDIOUS: (continuing) Lord Vader, can you hear me?

DARTH VADER, with his dark mask and helmet, moves up into the frame until he is in a CLOSEUP.

DARTH VADER: Yes, My Master.

DARTH VADER looks around the room.

DARTH VADER: (continuing) Where is Padme? Is she safe, is she all right?

DARTH SIDIOUS moves closer to the half droid/half man.

DARTH SIDIOUS: I'm afraid she died. ... it seems in your anger, you killed her.

A LOW GROAN emanates from Vader's mask. Suddenly everything in the room begins to implode, including some of the DROIDS.

DARTH VADER: I couldn't have! She was alive! I felt her! She was alive! It's impossible! No!!!

VADER SCREAMS, breaks his bonds to the table, and steps forward, waving his hands, causing objects to fly around the room. SIDIOUS deflects the objects, but some of the DROIDS aren't so lucky. VADER'S PAINFUL SCREAMS echo throughout the Center.

EXT. NABOO-ALDERAAN STARCRUISER

BAIL ORGANA's Starcruiser approaches the city of Theed.

INT. ALDERAAN CRUISER-CONFERENCE ROOM

BAIL ORGANA, YODA, and OBI-WAN sit around a conference table.

YODA: Pregnant, she must still appear. Hidden, safe, the children must be kept.

OBI-WAN: We must take them somewhere the Sith will not sense their presence.

YODA: Split up, they should be.

BAIL ORGANA: My wife and I will take the girl. We've always talked of adopting a baby girl. She will be loved with us.

OBI-WAN: And what of the boy?

YODA: To Tatooine. To his family, send him.

OBI-WAN: I will take the child and watch over him. Master Yoda, do you think Anakin's twins will be able to defeat Darth Sidious?

YODA: Strong the Force runs, in the Skywalker line. Hope, we can . . . Done, it is. Until the time is right, disappear we will.

BAIL leaves the conference room. YODA stops OBI-WAN.

YODA: (continuing) Master Kenobi, wait a moment. In your solitude on Tatooine, training I have for you.

OBI-WAN: Training??

YODA: An old friend has learned the path to immortality.

OBI-WAN: Who?

YODA: One who has returned from the netherworld of the Force to train me . . . your old Master, Qui-Gon Jinn.

OBI-WAN: Qui-Gon? But, how could he accomplish this?

YODA: The secret of the Ancient Order of the Whills, he studied. How to commune with him. I will teach you.

OBI-WAN: I will be able to talk with him?

YODA: How to join the Force, he will train you. Your consciousness you will retain, when one with the Force. Even your physical self, perhaps.

INT. ALDERAAN STARCRUISER-HALLWAY- SPACE

BAIL ORGANA, followed by ARTOO and THREEPIO, approaches CAPTAIN ANTILLES and TWO CREW MEMBERS.

BAIL ORGANA: Captain Antilles.

CAPTAIN ANTILLES: Yes, Your Highness.

BAIL ORGANA: I'm placing these droids in your care. Treat them well. Clean them up. Have the Protocol Droid's mind wiped.

C-3PO: Oh, no.

EXT. NABOO-MAIN SQUARE-DAWN

SIO BIBBLE walks with other MOURNERS.
LARGE CROWDS line the street as a flowered, covered coffin is drawn by SIX BEAUTIFUL WHITE BEASTS. SOLDIERS AND FAMILY ATO DIGNITARIES follow the casket.
PADME's hand clutches the japor snippet.

EXT. DAGOBAH-DAY

A small escape pod hurls toward the swamp planet and disappears in the mist. The pod has landed, and YODA descends the ramp, surveying the unfamiliar terrain.

EXT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER-SPACE

A Star Destroyer is surrounded by ATTACK CRUISERS. On the bridge of the Star Destroyer stands the EMPEROR and GOVERNOR TARKIN.

DARTH VADER walks along the bridge to join the EMPEROR and GOVERNOR TARKIN. The camera PANS to reveal the huge frame structure which is the beginning of the DEATH STAR.

EXT. ALDERAAN-STARCRUISER-SPACE

The ship approaches the surface of Alderaan.

EXT. ALDERAAN-LATE AFTERNOON

The QUEEN OF ALDERAAN sits on a balcony looking out over the awesome mountains of Alderaan. BAIL ORGANA brings a small baby to her. She takes her and rocks her.

EXT. TATOOINE-SUNSET

OBI-WAN rides up to the moisture farm homestead on an EOPIE. He dismounts, takes the BABY out of a papoose on his back, and walks toward AUNT BERU, who walks over to greet him. They talk for a moment, and OBI-WAN turns the baby over to the young homesteader. AUNT BERU walks to UNCLE OWEN who is standing on the ridge near the homestead. OBI-WAN leaves as OWEN, BERU, and the BABY watch the twin suns set.

THE END

THE FORCE AWAKENS

Luke Skywalker has vanished. In his absence, the sinister FIRST ORDER has risen from the ashes of the Empire and will not rest until Skywalker, the last Jedi, has been destroyed.
With the support of the REPUBLIC, General Leia Organa leads a brave RESISTANCE. She is desperate to find her brother Luke and gain his help in restoring peace and justice to the galaxy.

Leia has sent her most daring pilot on a secret mission to Jakku, where an old ally has discovered a clue to Luke's whereabouts....

PAN across the star field to a bright moon. A RUMBLING is FELT. A VAST STAR DESTROYER -- unlike any we have seen -- HURTLES PAST US, of seemingly endless length, eclipsing the moon. After a long beat, FOUR TRANSPORT SHIPS fly from a hangar. We HOLD ON THEM NOW, as they fly off toward a distant planet. Jakku. MUSIC BUILDS AND WE...

CUT TO BLACK.

A GROWING ROAR of MEAN ENGINES -- gnarled RADIO CALLS, the SHUDDERING of a ship's hull. Then FLASHES OF LIGHT: for an instant we see a STORMTROOPER -- then BLACKNESS. Then ANOTHER STORMTROOPER, then it's gone.

The FLICKERING CONTINUES until the LIGHTS ARE CONSTANT. We are in.

INT. TROOP TRANSPORT VEHICLE - NIGHT

TWENTY STORMTROOPERS. Holding on at attention, moving to the ship's rhythm, in the tense moments before a raid. A FILTERED COMMAND and they LOCK AND LOAD their heavy blaster rifles. The BRUTAL NOISE is replaced by SUDDEN, SHOCKING

EXT. JAKKU VILLAGE - NIGHT

WIDE SHOT of a small, peaceful village. Distant sounds of native animals. A single wind chime.
Suddenly a DROID RISES INTO FRAME, CLOSE: ROUND and SKITTERY, orange and white, this is BB-8.
Focuses on something past camera. He BEEPS -- FAST, MORSE CODE-LIKE SOUNDS, clearly worried. Moves EVEN CLOSER TO CAMERA -- is MORE worried -- BEEPS more -- then TURNS AND ROLLS OFF FAST -- 

INT. LARGE HUT - NIGHT

CLOSE ON A HAND: a small LEATHER SACK is placed in the palm.
The hand closes. Another OLDER HAND covers it.
In a primitive HUT, an old explorer, LOR SAN TEKKA, (rugged, kind) has handed the mysterious sack to POE DAMERON (32, in a pilot's jacket). Poe has charisma, a natural spark: 

LOR SAN TEKKA: This will begin to make things right.
I've traveled too far, and seen too much, to ignore the despair in the galaxy. Without the Jedi, there can be no balance in the Force.

POE: Well, because of you now we have a chance. The General's been after this for a long time.

LOR SAN TEKKA: The General." To me, she's royalty.

POE: Well, she certainly is that.

BB-8 ENTERS FRANTIC, BEEPS. Concerned, Poe turns to Lor San Tekka.

POE: We've got company.

EXT. LARGE HUT - NIGHT

The men exit fast. Poe moves TO CAMERA, raises QUADNOCULARS.
POE'S POV: LIGHTS on the horizon -- approaching ENEMY SHIPS.
POE lowers the quadnocs -- PUSH IN ON HIS UNNERVED EYES. A

GROWING, FRIGHTENING THUNDER.

POE: You have to hide.

LOR SAN TEKKA: You have to leave. Go! Poe turns to him. Conflicted. Finally nods, hurries off.
BB-8 follows.

EXT. JAKKU VILLAGE - NIGHT

TRACK FAST with Poe as he and BB-8 hurry through the village, various ARMED VILLAGERS taking position, prepared to defend.

EXT. JAKKU VILLAGE - NIGHT

A ROAR of WIND and DUST: the TRANSPORTS LAND. Stormtroopers come out FIRING BLASTERS -- the VILLAGERS FIRE BACK -- many are HIT! 

EXT. RISE ADJACENT TO VILLAGE - NIGHT

Poe runs to an X-WING fighter, parked at a distance from the village, hidden behind a ROCK OUTCROPPING.

POE: Come on, BB-8! Hurry! Poe sends BB-8 into the droid socket / co-pilot seat -- he moves to the cockpit -- the CONTROLS COME TO LIFE. As the CANOPY CLOSES, Poe shoots a quick look back: the ENEMY ARRIVES

IN THE DISTANCE.
Poe urgently works the controls -- BB-8 BEEPS.
The X-WING LANDING LIGHTS COME ON, ENGINES WHINE TO LIFE! But just then: Poe's ship is suddenly HIT BY BLASTERFIRE! Poe turns to look: two STORMTROOPERS CHARGE HIS WAY, FIRING! 
POE: I see 'em! BB-8 BEEPS nervously as Poe GRABS HIS CONTROLS and FIRES AT THEM, using the X-wing's drop-down antipersonnel blaster! The two Troopers are BLOWN AWAY in the large BLAST HITS! Poe tries to start the ship now, but the ENGINES SPUTTER.
Concerned, he opens his canopy, jumps down, moves to the back of his ship: BAD DAMAGE ON THE REAR ENGINE PANEL.
They're in trouble.

EXT. JAKKU VILLAGE - NIGHT

Lor San Tekka moves sadly through the village as STORMTROOPERS wielding FLAME THROWERS destroy structures. Surrendering Villagers are ROUNDED UP. Penned ANIMALS panic.

EXT. RISE ADJACENT TO THE VILLAGE - NIGHT

Back at the X-wing, Poe kneels beneath his ship, pulls from the leather sack a SMALL, OLD ARTIFACT which he inserts into BB-8 -- the droid's MULTI-READER ENVELOPS it.

POE: You take this. It's safer with you than it is with me. You get as far away from here as you can. Do you hear me? (BB-8 BEEPS, hesitates) I'll come back for you! It will be alright.

BB-8 watches Poe run off. BEEP-WHINES nervously, then turns and heads off. Turns back once to look at Poe, then ROLLS AWAY. Poe uses his blaster rifle to fire at incoming troopers from cover.

EXT. JAKKU VILLAGE - NIGHT

The Troopers and villagers in battle -- as one Trooper is HIT and goes down. Another -- OUR TROOPER -- KNEELS to help.
The hit trooper raises a torn, bloody glove -- his HUMAN HAND visible -- and MARKS OUR STORMTROOPER'S MASK WITH BLOOD just before he dies. Our Trooper, stands -- overwhelmed by the battle.

AN IMPOSING SHUTTLE CRAFT -- VERTICAL WINGSPAN 90 FEET TALL -- 
LANDS NEAR THE TRANSPORT VEHICLES.
The shuttle craft door OPENS -- through the wind and smoke, KYLO REN exits the ship: a TALL, DARK FIGURE, he strides through the chaos toward San Tekka.
A senior Trooper moves to our blood-marked Trooper, and orders 
HIM: 

SENIOR TROOPER: Stay here.
Our Trooper nods.
Kylo Ren stops before the outraged Lor San Tekka, dwarfing him. Only now does it become apparent that Kylo Ren wears a DARK MASK, marked by battle. Inset metal lines reflect FIRE.

KYLO REN: Look how old you've become.

LOR SAN TEKKA: Something far worse has happened to you.
Our blood-marked TROOPER is placed in line with other stormtroopers.

KYLO REN: You know what I've come for.

KYLO REN: The map to Skywalker. We know you've found it, and now you're going to give it to the First Order.
Adjacent to the village, Poe enters frame -- sees the Ren/San Tekka exchange continue.

LOR SAN TEKKA: The First Order rose from the dark side... you did not.

KYLO REN: I'll show you the dark side.

LOR SAN TEKKA: You may try, but you cannot deny the truth that is your family.
Suddenly Kylo Ren raises his LIGHTSABER -- IGNITES IT -- 
PERPENDICULAR SMALLER BLADES AT THE HILT, A UNIQUE BUZZ -- 
YELLOW/RED ENERGY, SPITTING SPARKS AND SMOKE -- 

KYLO REN: You're so right.
And as he RIPS IT DOWN ACROSS SAN TEKKA! Poe, RUNNING, SEES THIS AND YELLS, AIMS HIS BLASTER AND FIRES AT KYLO REN! Instantly: Kylo Ren RAISES HIS HAND -- POE'S BLAST FREEZES -- THE BOLT

OF ENERGY STRAINING AND VIBRATING IN MID AIR! Kylo Ren sees Poe, who suddenly CANNOT MOVE, but strains to.
He is grabbed by Stormtroopers who drag him past the VIBRATING, FROZEN BLAST, to Kylo Ren.
A Stormtrooper begins a brutal PAT DOWN. Kylo Ren moves closer. Poe just glares. The Stormtrooper KICKS OUT Poe's legs -- he lands hard on his knees.
Kylo Ren kneels to look at Poe.

POE: So who talks first? You talk first? 

KYLO REN: The old man gave it to you.

POE

(INDICATES KYLO'S MASK) It's just very hard to understand you with all the...

YLO REN

(TO TROOPERS) Search him.

POE: ... Apparatus.
The Troopers roughly pull Poe away. A Stormtrooper begins a brutal PAT DOWN. Kylo Ren moves closer.
Poe just glares as the pat down ends.

STORMTROOPER: Nothing, sir.

KYLO REN: Put him on board.
Kylo Ren regards the Stormtroopers with the rounded up Villagers, then turns to the CHROME-SKINNED, FEMALE BLACK- 
CAPED HEAD STORMTROOPER, CAPTAIN PHASMA.

CAPTAIN PHASMA: Sir, the villagers.

KYLO REN: Kill them all.
Phasma nods, steps forward: 

CAPTAIN PHASMA: On my command! The Troopers, including OURS, aim at the Villagers.

CAPTAIN PHASMA: Fire! Poe is roughly PULLED into a transport ship, the ramp LIFTS.
All around our Trooper BLASTERFIRE ERUPTS -- but we're WIDE ENOUGH to see he ISN'T FIRING. PUSH IN until the FIRING STOPS. All the Stormtroopers SPREAD OUT TO SEARCH -- except ours.
Kylo Ren heads back toward his ship. But then he STOPS.
Feels something. TURNS AND LOOKS AT OUR STORMTROOPER for a LONG MOMENT. Our Trooper can barely meet his gaze; knows he's doomed.
Kylo Ren then heads off -- passes the FROZEN BLAST, which, after a beat, GOES FREE AND SLAMS INTO A NEARBY STRUCTURE, scaring the hell out of our Stormtrooper.

EXT. EDGE OF JAKKU VILLAGE - NIGHT

A Stormtrooper climbs down from the cockpit of Poe's X-wing, 
BACKS AWAY: 

TORMTROOPER: Nothing here. Go ahead! Three other Stormtroopers FIRE LASER CANNONS at the X-wing -- destroying the ship in a LARGE EXPLOSION.

EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF JAKKU VILLAGE - NIGHT

BB-8 rolls across the sand, looks back: the X-wing FIREBALL.
BB-8, afraid, continues on his own in a mysterious, dark desert. We see a FORM -- an animal, its RED EYES LIFTING from the sand, watching the rolling droid, who just keeps going.
In a WIDE SHOT, we HEAR HIM BEEPING to himself, lonely and frightened.

EXT. SPACE - NIGHT

With the SANDY PLANET OF JAKKU as backdrop, Troop Transports and Kylo Ren's Shuttle approach a massive STAR DESTROYER.

INT. STAR DESTROYER HANGAR - NIGHT

Poe, shackled, is ushered from the transport through the hangar. He is awed by the imposing space.

POE: All right. All right! Our Stormtrooper passes, moves fast: 
INT. TROOP TRANSPORT VEHICLE - NIGHT

Our Stormtrooper enters the dark, vehicle. He removes his helmet. His head comes up and we PUSH IN ON HIS FACE FOR THE FIRST TIME. This is FN-2187. He is 23, likable. But in this moment, terrified, desperate.
After a beat, behind him, CAPTAIN PHASMA enters. FN-2187 knows he's in trouble.

CAPTAIN PHASMA: FN-2187. Submit your blaster for inspection.

FN-2187 Yes, Captain.

CAPTAIN PHASMA: And who gave you permission to remove that helmet? 
FN-2187 I'm sorry, Captain.

CAPTAIN PHASMA: Report to my division at once.

CUT TO: 
INT. JUNKED VESSEL CORRIDOR - DAY

A metal sheet is pulled open to reveal the wrapped up face of A SCAVENGER, perhaps alien, in GOGGLES, FACE MASK and GLOVES. Backpack with a STAFF strapped to it. Uses TOOLS to remove various MECHANISMS from inside the wall. We are in an upside-down, canted CORRIDOR. The Scavenger finds a valuable piece, drops it in a SATCHEL.
Swings the bag back and begins CLIMBING DOWN on a cable, between treacherous WALLS OF MACHINERY, headed to: 
INT. JUNKED VESSEL - LARGER SPACE - LATER

Alone and tiny in this massive, sideways wreck, the Scavenger descends, climbing down a two-hundred foot-long cable. LANDS HARD onto rusty metal.

INT. JUNKED VESSEL - ENGINES - DAY

The Scavenger carries the satchel and another large, found piece, over enormous pipes in the vast space, heads through the dust toward a distant SLIT OF SUNLIGHT.

EXT. JUNKED VESSEL ENGINE - DAY

The Scavenger arrives from the darkness and pulls off goggles and gear, revealing the grimy face of a beautiful, young WOMAN. This is REY, 19.
She opens her canteen, shakes out the two final drops into her mouth. HITS THE SIDE of the canteen again and again for whatever she can get. CUT WIDE: Rey is rendered minuscule, standing at the bottom of an EPIC

ENGINE OF A DECAYING, CRASHED STAR DESTROYER -- DISTANT SOUND of her canteen-hitting. She sets her things on a piece of sheet metal and sits next to it, sliding down the sand dune.
She RIDES DOWN THE MOUNTAIN OF SAND. WE HOLD FOR A LONG TIME, looking down, as she recedes from us, toward the distant SALT FLATS below. Random SCATTERED DEBRIS. Her SPEEDER, tiny from here.
Rey moves to her junker SPEEDER, jumps on, fires the sputtery engine and DRIVES OFF.

EXT. DESERT - SPACESHIP GRAVEYARD - DAY

Rey races along the desert floor: a GRAVEYARD OF CRASHED

SPACESHIPS.

EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - DAY

Rey's speeder PASSES us, heading for a dusty, desert town.
Refueling, small trade, scavengers.

EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - CLEANING TABLE - DAY

TIGHT ON REY'S HANDS as she SCRUBS CLEAN her day's salvage.
Rey glances up: she looks at an old woman, also cleaning some salvage.
Rey watches her, gets lost in the simple moment. A small, passing alien UNDERLING barks something to her in another language. She returns to work.

INT. NIIMA TRADING STRUCTURE - DAY

Rey looks up to a SERVICE WINDOW: two feet above her, behind a protective screen, is her boss, UNKAR PLUTT (50, blobfish, unclean). He examines her pieces. Then he offers: 

UNKAR: What you've brought me today is worth... Hmmm... One quarter portion.
Though disappointed, Rey barely shows it. She nods thanks.
Unkar pushes through his transfer drawer a SEALED PACKET: DRIED GREEN MEAT in one section, BEIGE POWDER in another.
She takes it.
She swallows her resentment and heads off.

EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - DAY

The IMMENSE SETTING SUN against the FLAT TERRAIN. Rey's SPEEDER races, almost insignificant, across frame.

INT. REY'S DWELLING - DAY

She SCRATCHES MARKS into the rusty wall. Another MARK; another DAY. And there are THOUSANDS of marks.
A SIZZLING SOUND over: A DRIED DESERT FLOWER in a rusty ENGINE PIECE. A rough, stuffed HANDMADE DOLL, made from what looks like orange Rebellion flight suit material and twine.
Rey's lonely, ramshackle dwelling. Everything reclaimed.
She cooks for one. Does everything for one. She opens the POWDER, moves to the makeshift WOK, where the GREEN MEAT SIZZLES. Pours the powder into milky WATER in a tin. Stirs it. It GROWS INTO A LOAF as she puts the meat on an old plate. Grabs the loaf.

EXT. REY'S DWELLING - DUSK

Rey sits, eats like a starving child. Every last drop.
Licks the metal plate. Looks out at the horizon. A single silent ship heads off, a shimmering, thin contrail. She wipes her mouth. Picks up an old, broken REBELLION HELMET.
uts it on, WIDE SHOT of Rey sitting, alone and isolated, on the leg of an ANCIENT, FALLEN AT-AT in which she lives.
Then, a distant ELECTRONIC SQUEAL -- instantly she's up, helmet too big, she rips it off. Hears ANOTHER BEEPING SQUEAL. She hurries to her QUARTERSTAFF and runs off.
Rey climbs a dune. RISE WITH HER, revealing BB-8, caught in a NET but fighting back, being held by a TEEDO (a small, brutish desert tyrant), who rides a LUGGABEAST. The teedo YELLS at BB-8, who BEEPS madly, struggling to free himself.
Rey watches this injustice for a beat, finally YELLING OUT: 

REY: Tal'ama parqual! The Teedo and BB-8 STOP, GO SILENT, turn to her.

REY: Parqual zatana! A half beat and the Teedo YELLS SOMETHING BACK, threatening.
BB-8's head swivels to him, then back to Rey, like watching a tennis match.
Rey angrily moves to them, pulling a knife from her pouch.
Rey starts CUTTING BB-8 out of the netting. The Teedo freaks out, YELLING. Rey suddenly stands, turns to the Teedo and says, fiercely: 
REY: 
NOMA.
The Teedo barks a sort of "AHHHHH!" (As if to say, "GO TO HELL!"), Then heads off on his beast. This prompts BB-8 to start BEEP-YELLING at the departing bully, provocatively.

REY: Shhhh.
BB-8 quiets instantly. The two watch the Teedo head off.
Finally, BB-8 BEEPS a question. She KNEELS to him.

REY: That's just Teedo. Wants you for parts. He has no respect for anyone.
Your antenna's bent.
(considers BB-8 for the first time, 
STRAIGHTENS THE

ANTENNA) Where do you come from? 
(BB-8 BEEPS) Classified. Really? Me too. Big secret.
(points to horizon) Niima Outpost is that way, stay off Kelvin Ridge.

(MORE) 

EY: Keep away from the Sinking Fields in the north, you'll drown in the sand.
(stands, heads off) 

BB-8 starts after her, BEEPS. She turns sharply, he stops.

REY: Don't follow me. Town is that way.
(he BEEPS again) No! She heads off again. Finally he BEEPS to her -- something SWEET this time. That he is alone, scared, has no one else.
This makes her stop. She turns and looks at him. Not liking him. But a gesture of her head says, reluctantly, "Come on." BB-8 quickly moves to her. They head off together.

REY: In the morning, you go.

(HE BEEPS) You're welcome.
The two disappear behind a dune.

EXT. STAR DESTROYER - DAY

Three TIE fighters head to the massive ship high above Jakku.

INT. STAR DESTROYER HOLDING CELL - DAY

POE, shackled to a chair, BEATEN, wakes up.

KYLO REN: I had no idea we had the best pilot in the Resistance on board.
Comfortable? Through battered lips: 

POE: Not really.

KYLO REN: I'm impressed. No one has been able to get out of you what you did with the map.

POE: Might wanna rethink your technique.
Kylo Ren says nothing, reaches out to him. Poe flinches in the chair as Kylo Ren reaches for his face, not touching him. Poe is soon in agony, remains in horrible silence -- 

KYLO REN: Where is it? 

POE: The Resistance will not be intimidated by you.

KYLO REN: Where... is it? Poe can't take it -- he BEGINS TO SCREAM and we CUT TO: 
INT. STAR DESTROYER CORRIDOR - DAY

WHOOOSH! The cell door SLIDES UP. Kylo Ren exits, fierce, confronts GENERAL HUX (34, scary) who awaits him: 

KYLO REN: It's in a droid. A BB unit.

GENERAL HUX: Well then. If it's on Jakku, we'll soon have it.

KYLO REN: I leave that to you.

EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - DAY

BB-8 is dropped to the sand.

REY: Don't give up. He still might show up. Whoever it is you're waiting for. Classified. I know all about waiting.
BB-8 BEEPTALKS a question.

REY: For my family. They'll be back.
One day. Come on.
She tries to force a smile, but can't, really. She heads off. BB-8 BEEPS... then heads after her.

INT. NIIMA TRADING STRUCTURE - DAY

Rey stands with BB-8 in front of Unkar Plutt, at his window.
He reviews her goods. He glances quickly at BB-8.

UNKAR: These five pieces are worth... Let me see here... One half portion.

REY

(OBJECTS) Last week they were a half portion each.
She hates him. He leans forward.

UNKAR: What about the droid? 

REY: What about him? 

UNKAR: I'll pay for him.
BB-8 doesn't like this at all. Rey is awkward, but curious.

UNKAR: Sixty portions.
CLOSE ON HER. Stunned. Literally hungry for this amount of food, her stomach practically rumbles.
BB-8 sees her interest and BEEPS furiously, not liking this conversation at all.
She looks at Unkar. Looks down at BB-8. Considers it all.
Finally, she hears herself say: 

REY: Actually... the droid's not for sale.

(TO BB-8) Come on.
Unkar furious. Rey, then BB-8, head out. Recovering, Unkar watches her go with dark eyes. He picks up a communicator: 

UNKAR: Follow the girl and get that droid.
He SLAMS the service window door SHUT.

INT. STAR DESTROYER HOLDING CELL - DAY

The cell door WHOOSHES OPEN -- a STORMTROOPER enters. Poe remains shackled, worse for wear. A TROOPER GUARD here.

STORMTROOPER: Ren wants the prisoner.
TIGHT ON POE, in pain, drained, as the Guard unshackles him.

INT. STAR DESTROYER CORRIDOR - DAY

An exhausted, handcuffed Poe is walked down the corridor by the Stormtrooper, who holds a blaster at Poe's body.

STORMTROOPER: Turn here.
Poe turns into a narrow passageway -- 
INT. STAR DESTROYER NARROW PASSAGEWAY - DAY

Heading down the narrow hall the Stormtrooper stops Poe.

STORMTROOPER: Listen carefully: you do exactly as I say, I can get you out of here.

POE

(COMING TO) If -- what--? The Stormtrooper pulls off his helmet: IT IS FN-2187.

FN-2187 This is a rescue, I'm helping you escape. Can you fly a TIE fighter? 

POE: You with the Resistance--?! 
FN-2187 What? 
(THAT'S CRAZY) No no no! I'm breaking you out.
Can you fly a TIE fighter? 

POE: I can fly anything. Why, why are you helping me? 
FN-2187 Because it's the right thing to do.

POE: (it hits him) You need a pilot.

FN-2187 I need a pilot.
And Poe, seeing this is for real, smiles a hero's smile.

POE: We're gonna do this.

FN-2187 (unsure but hopeful) ... Yeah? 
INT. STAR DESTROYER HANGAR - DAY

WIDE SHOT ESTABLISHING the hangar. Find FN-2187, again masked, walking with Poe. By all appearances he's escorting a prisoner. A group of OFFICERS passes in the opposite direction.

FN-2187 Okay, stay calm, stay calm.

POE: I am calm.

N-2187 I'm talking to myself.

(BEAT) Not yet. Okay, go. This way.
FN-2187 walks quickly toward the far wall -- Poe follows -- up the stairs to a two-man SPECIAL FORCES TIE FIGHTER -- 
INT. TIE FIGHTER - DAY

FN-2187 and Poe (wincing, sore) drop into the back-to-back cockpit. FN-2187 pulls off his helmet as Poe removes his cuffs and jacket, fires up the ship with excitement.

POE: I always wanted to fly one of these things. Can ya shoot? 
FN-2187 Blasters, I can! 

POE: Okay, same principal! Use the toggle on the left to switch between missiles, cannons, and mag pulse -- use the site on the right to aim, triggers to fire! 
FN-2187 This is very complicated FWOOOOOOM! The TIE FIGHTER LURCHES FORWARD -- 

POE: I can fix this.

INT. HANGAR SIX CONTROL ROOM - DAY

WIDE: see the ship STRUGGLE TO RISE, CABLES connected to it -- PULL BACK FAST to REVEAL we're inside the main control room.

STAR DESTROYER TECHNICIAN: We have an unsanctioned departure from bay two.
WHIP TO a FIRST ORDER COLONEL, who responds: 

FIRST ORDER COLONEL: Alert General Hux and stop that fighter.

INT. STAR DESTROYER HANGAR - DAY

The TIE Fighter LIFTS OFF from the bay, rips CHARGING cables! Stormtroopers UNPACK and aim MEGABLASTERS.

INT. TIE FIGHTER - DAY

FN-2187 opens fire.

INT. STAR DESTROYER HANGAR - DAY

FN-2187 TEARS UP PARKED TIE FIGHTERS and GUN EMPLACEMENTS WITH WELL-AIMED, STRATEGIC LASER BLASTS! Hits the CONTROL

ROOM! 
INT. HANGAR SIX CONTROL ROOM - DAY

THE WINDOWS ARE BLOWN IN BY LASER BLASTS! 
INT. TIE FIGHTER COCKPIT - DAY

POE: I got it! 
EXT. STAR DESTROYER - DAY

The TIE Fighter blasts from the ship -- 
INT. TIE FIGHTER - DAY

Poe pilots -- amazed, almost enjoying it.

POE: Woooahhh! This thing really moves.
All right, we gotta take out as many cannons as we can or we're not gonna get very far! 
FN-2187 All right! 

POE: I'm gonna get us in position, just stay sharp! 
EXT. STAR DESTROYER - DAY

The TIE Fighter ARCS BACK, DIVES THROUGH THE OPENING BETWEEN THE LEVELS OF THE MASSIVE SHIP, then FLIES DOWN AND BACK, along the ship's belly -- 
INT. TIE FIGHTER - DAY

Poe flies toward the CANONS -- 

POE: Up ahead! Up ahead! You see it? I've got us dead centered. It's a clean shot.

FN-2187 Okay, got it.
FN-2187 gets a target, FIRES! 
EXT. STAR DESTROYER - DAY

LASERS BLAST from the TIE Fighter -- A SERIES OF CANNONS EXPLODE! Our TIE Fighter SLICES THROUGH the debris! 
INT. TIE FIGHTER - DAY

FN-2187 YELLS in celebration: 
FN-2187 YES! You see that?! DID YOU SEE

THAT? 

POE: I saw it! Hey, what's your name? 
FN-2187 
FN-2187! Poe reacts, this tells him volumes about FN-2187's history.

POE: FN-whaa? 
FN-2187 That's the only name they ever gave me! 

POE: Well I ain't using it! FN, huh? Finn. I'm gonna call you Finn! That all right? Even in the madness, Finn can't suppress his smile.

FINN: Finn." Yeah, "Finn", I like that! I like that! 

POE: I'm Poe. Poe Dameron.

FINN: Good to meet you, Poe! 

POE: Good to meet you too, Finn! 
INT. STAR DESTROYER MAIN BRIDGE - DAY

General Hux looks over the shoulder of LIEUTENANT MITAKA, at a console.

LIEUTENANT MITAKA: Sir, they've taken out our turbolasers-- 

GENERAL HUX: Use the ventral cannons.

LIEUTENANT MITAKA: Yes, sir. Bringing them online -- 
KYLO REN (O.S.) General Hux. Is it the Resistance pilot? Hux turns: Kylo Ren enters fast, looms large, angry.

GENERAL HUX: Yes, and he had help.

(VEXED) From one of our own.
PUSH IN ON REN as Hux says: 
GENERAL HUX: We're checking the registers now to identify which Stormtrooper it was.

KYLO REN: ... The one from the village. FN- 
2187.
Hux is unnerved that Ren knows -- he chalks it up to Ren's Force ability. Kylo Ren heads off.

LIEUTENANT MITAKA: Sir. Ventral cannons hot.

GENERAL HUX: Fire.

EXT. STAR DESTROYER - DAY

Massive WARHEAD LAUNCHERS SPIN and FIRE BLASTS toward the TIE fighter, which flies EVASIVE MANEUVERS -- most blasts hit the DEBRIS from the TURBOLASER DESTRUCTION.
The TIE fighter then PULLS A BIG TURN, BACK TOWARD JAKKU, 
THE SANDY PLANET WHERE POE LEFT BB-8.

INT. TIE FIGHTER - DAY

POE: One's coming towards you. My right, your left. Do you see it? 

FINN: Hold on! I see it! 

POE: Nice shot.
Finn looks up suddenly in alarm -- 

FINN: Where are you going? 

POE: We're going back to Jakku. That's where.

FINN: No no no! We can't go back to Jakku! We need to get outta this system! NEAR-MISS LASER BLASTS as Poe pilots aggressively.

POE: I got to get to my droid before the First Order does! 

FINN: What - a droid?! 

POE: That's right. He's a BB unit! Orange and white: one of a kind.

FINN: I don't care what color he is! No droid can be that important! 

POE: This one is, pal.

FINN: We need to get as far away from the First Order as we can! We go back to Jakku, we die! 

POE: That droid's got a map that leads straight to Luke Skywalker! 

FINN: Oh, you gotta be kidding me!!! I-- Suddenly BAM! THEY ARE HIT! 
EXT. TIE FIGHTER - DAY

The TIE FIGHTER SPARKS AND SMOKES, SPIRALING out of control toward the surface of Jakku! 
INT. STAR DESTROYER MAIN BRIDGE - DAY

Captain Phasma and General Hux stand before a holographic projection detailing FN-2187's service records.

CAPTAIN PHASMA: FN-2187 reported to my division, was evaluated and sent to Reconditioning.

GENERAL HUX: No prior signs of non-conformity? 

CAPTAIN PHASMA: This was his first offense.
A technician checks her readings, reports to General Hux.

TECHNICIAN: General. They've been hit.

GENERAL HUX: Destroyed? 
TECHNICIAN: 
(GETTING READINGS) Disabled. They were headed back to Jakku -- the fighter's projected to crash in the Goazon badlands.

GENERAL HUX: They were going back for the droid -- send a squad to the wreckage.

EXT. JAKKU DESERT - DAY

TIGHT ON FINN'S FACE: His EYES OPEN. He goes from unconscious to terrified, fast. He sits up, looks around. CUT BACK WIDE: he sits in the middle of an EPIC DESERT, DUNES FOREVER.
A BLACK CHUTE blows in the wind behind him, scattered debris.
Then he sees, over distant dunes, RISING BLACK SMOKE. He gets up -- moves toward it, calling out: 

FINN: Poe! Poe! Finn scrambles over the massive dune to the TIE FIGHTER, SMOKING AND ON FIRE, small debris around it. He thinks he sees POE'S ARM -- he pulls on it, but it's JUST POE'S JACKET.
He throws that off and tries to find a way in -- even a way to LOOK INSIDE, but the smoke and heat make it impossible.

FINN: Poe!!! POE! Suddenly the ship BEGINS TO SINK -- like it's being CONSUMED INTO QUICKSAND -- Finn is slipping in too -- 
FINN: 
POE!!! POE!!! It becomes clear fast: if Finn doesn't get away, he's gonna get sucked in too! So Finn scampers away from the TIE FIGHTER as it SINKS INTO THE SAND! We're in the Sinking Fields. A few moments and IT'S GONE.
Finn's out of breath. Horrified. Then A GIANT EXPLOSION ERUPTS FROM below, SENDING SAND AND DEBRIS EVERYWHERE! Finn sees this, disoriented, scared, exhausted and defeated.
And all alone.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

ENDLESS DUNES BEHIND HIM, Finn walks, removing pieces of his Stormtrooper gear, using Poe's FLIGHT JACKET for shade.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Exhausted, Finn continues his trek across the endless, sandy nothingness.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Finn, parched and losing hope, he walks to the edge of a massive dune, looks out into the epic valley below. Miles ahead: NIIMA OUTPOST.

INT. STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - DAY

General Hux and Kylo Ren walk the length of the bridge.

GENERAL HUX: Supreme Leader Snoke was explicit.
Capture the droid if we can, but destroy it if we must.

KYLO REN: How capable are your soldiers, General? 
GENERAL HUX

(WITH VITRIOL) I won't have you question my methods.

KYLO REN: They're obviously skilled at committing high treason. Perhaps Leader Snoke should consider using a clone army.

GENERAL HUX

(YOU SON-OF-A-BITCH) My men are exceptionally trained -- programmed from birth-- 

KYLO REN: Then they should have no problem retrieving the droid. Unharmed.

GENERAL HUX: Careful, Ren. That your "personal interests" not interfere with orders from Leader Snoke.

KYLO REN: I want that map. For your sake, I suggest you get it.
Ren heads off. Hux hates him.

EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - DAY

Sun-scorched and exhausted, Finn stumbles out of the desert into the Outpost. In a heatstroke daze he moves past enormous old SHIP PARTS, MERCHANTS, SCAVENGERS and TENTED STALLS.

FINN: Water... water... water..
He sees a WATER TROUGH where a filthy, slobbering hippo-like creature (a HAPPABORE) DRINKS. Finn moves to it, uses his hands to desperately DRINK the filthy water. After a couple swallows he SPITS IT OUT, disgusted.

FINN: -- Awgh, GAH! But he's parched and immediately RETURNS FOR MORE.
ACROSS THE MARKETPLACE, REY kneels with an emphatically 
BEEPING BB-8.
Just then, TWO of UNKAR'S THUGS approach and stop her. One clearly tells her that they're taking the droid. BB-8 reacts nervously as Rey resists them -- one pulls a SACK over BB-8 while the other grabs Rey's arm -- in the tussle, Rey KNOCKS OVER METAL URNS for sale -- Finn, still drinking, is PUSHED OVER by the happabore. He falls to the ground, then turns to look when he HEARS CRASHING. He sees, through the tents, REY FIGHTING.
He moves UP CLOSER to help this young woman being accosted -- but he STOPS when Rey begins to FIGHT BACK -- scrappy and feral, she KICKS, BITES and HITS. Finn is taken aback as she DEFEATS the attackers, who hit the sand, hard.
Finn just watches, stunned.
Rey moves to the COVERED BB-8 -- PULLS THE SACK OFF OF HIM.
Finn cannot believe his eyes. IT'S POE'S DROID! Rey talks to BB-8, who, nervous now, looks around and...
SEES FINN! BB-8 STARTS BEEPING like crazy. Then something insane happens: REY LOOKS AT FINN.

REY: To BB-8) Who? Him? Finn is confused. Rey stands, staring at Finn, defiant.
Finn can feel trouble coming -- and Rey begins CHARGING AT HIM, quarterstaff in hand.
Realizing he's the target, Finn begins to RUN -- away from her, through the tent marketplace. Rey goes after him -- he turns a corner -- then another -- then BAM! She's got ahead of him and SLAMS HIM TO THE GROUND WITH HER STAFF! Finn is on his back, out of breath and freaked out. She holds the staff on him threateningly: 

REY: What's your hurry, thief? 

FINN: What--?! Thief? BB-8 ROLLS UP FAST, MOVES TO FINN -- a WELDING ARM TELESCOPES

FROM HIS BODY AND SHOCKS FINN! 
FINN: OW! HEY! What?! 

REY: The jacket! This droid says you stole it! 

FINN: I've had a pretty messed up day, alright?! So I'd appreciate it you stop accusing me -- OW!!! (BB-8 has ZAPPED him 
AGAIN) 
STOP IT! 

REY: Where'd you get it? It belongs to his master.
Finn looks at her -- then the agitated droid, Finn's mind racing. He puts it all together. Frustrated, but sighs heavily, needing to respond somehow. So he makes a hard decision: to tell the truth.

FINN: It belonged to Poe Dameron. That was his name, right? Rey and BB-8 react, surprised and wanting more.

FINN: He was captured... by the First Order! I helped him escape but our ship crashed.

(RELIVING IT) Poe didn't make it.
(sees BB-8 is sad, 
ROLLS OFF) Look, I tried to help him. I'm sorry...
BB-8 heads off to the side, depressed. Rey watches BB-8, then considers Finn again. Says, a bit impressed: 

REY: So you're with the Resistance? 

FINN: Obviously. Yes. I am. I'm with the Resistance, yeah.

(WHISPERS) I'm with the Resistance.
Rey lowers her staff, Finn stands. Rey studies him: 

REY: I've never met a Resistance fighter before.

FINN: Well, this is what we look like.
Some of us. Others look different.

REY: BB-8 says he's on a secret mission, he has to get back to your base.

FINN: Apparently he's carrying a map that leads to Luke Skywalker, and everyone's after it.
She turns to him, concerned, curious. And asks: 

REY: Luke Skywalker? I thought he was a myth.
Just then BB-8 BEEPS MADLY at something he sees.

REY: What is it? Rey moves to him, peeks around a tent corner. Now Finn moves to see: at a distance, TWO STORMTROOPERS TALKING TO UNKAR'S THUGS -- who POINT THEIR WAY! Finn urgently grabs her hand and heads for the tents: 
REY: (re: her hand) What are you doing?! 

FINN: Come on! Suddenly LASER BLASTS RIP PAST THEM, HIT THE CLEANING UNIT, SPEWING STEAM! Rey SCREAMS -- MORE BLASTS as they run! 
EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - DAY

Finn and Rey holding hands, the three race, ZIGZAGGING through a maze of tents: 

FINN: Come on, BB-8! 

REY: Let go of me! 

FINN: No, we gotta move! 

REY: (pulls her hand back) I know how to run without you holding my hand! BB-8 stay close! This way! Now Finn and BB-8 follow Rey -- ANOTHER BLAST just missing them! They disappear through a tent.
TRACK FAST WITH STORMTROOPERS, through the tent maze. They come out of a tent, HAVING MOMENTARILY LOST THEIR TARGET.

STORMTROOPER: Call in the air strike! REY, FINN AND BB-8 duck into another tent: 
INT. NIIMA OUTPOST - TENT - DAY

Rey, Finn and BB-8 move through RUSTY WARES and take cover.
Quiet, urgent: 

REY: They're shooting at both of us! 

FINN: Yeah, they saw you with me! You're marked! 

REY: Well, thanks for that! 

FINN: I'm not the one who chased you down with a stick! Does anyone have blasters around here?! 
REY

(TO BB-8) Are you okay? Finn QUIETS HER WITH A GESTURE, HEARING SOMETHING.
PUSH IN ON FINN -- whatever he hears alarms him greatly -- he GRABS HER HAND AGAIN -- PULLS HER AWAY -- 
REY: Stop taking my hand! 
EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - TENT - DAY

Finn pulls Rey from the tent -- BB-8 FOLLOWS -- As they race from the tent a TIE FIGHTER SCREAMS INTO VIEW

FROM BEHIND THE TENTS! A SECOND FOLLOWS CLOSE BEHIND. IT

FIRES AT THEM -- A MASSIVE BLAST SENDS REY AND FINN FLYING -- 
BB-8 ROLLING! 

WIDE SHOT: TWO TIE FIGHTERS SCREAM OVER the town, the EXPLOSION throws sand and debris fifty feet into the air.
Rey is thrown HARD to the ground -- she is rattled, truly afraid. Then she turns: FINN lies nearby, unconscious.
Suddenly afraid, she scrambles to him, rolls him over. BB-8 ROLLS OVER, BEEPING in concern.

REY: Hey! As Finn comes to, he sees her. Through his fog: 

FINN: -- Are you okay? And that very question touches her -- having never in her life been asked it.

REY: Yeah.
(extends her hand) Follow me.
Grateful, Finn takes it. They're off.
LOCALS run amok as TIE fighters DIVE BOMB. REY, Finn and BB- 
8 SPRINT, BLASTER EXPLOSIONS GET CLOSER AND CLOSER! 
EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - SPACEPORT - DAY

Rey, STAFF strapped to her back, leads the way as she, Finn and BB-8 race into the spaceport. Finn glances back: TWO TIE FIGHTERS BANK their return. They YELL: 

FINN: We can't outrun them! Rey POINTS to a parked, four-engine SHIP ahead: 

REY: We might in that quad-jumper! 

FINN: We need a pilot! 

REY: We've got one! 

FINN: You?! (then, indicates one 
OFF-CAMERA) What about that ship? 

REY: That one's garbage! They run for the JUMPER but the passing TIE FIGHTERS FIRE AT IT, BLOWING IT APART IN A HUGE FLAME BALL! Rey, coming to a quick stop, RIGHT UP TO CAMERA: 
REY: The garbage'll do! She turns and runs back -- Finn and BB-8 follow as they all run toward the piece of junk -- and we see it for the first time: THE MILLENNIUM FALCON! TIE fighters BANK AROUND AGAIN. Finn, Rey and BB-8 run up the ramp of the semi-tarped Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAY

Finn, Rey and BB-8 enter the ship -- she hits a control and the door DESCENDS CLOSED as she races to the cockpit: 

REY: Gunner position's down there! 
FINN

(CLIMBS DOWN) Y'ever fly this thing? 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Rey tosses her staff aside, jumps into the pilot's seat, frantically flips switches. BB-8 rolls in behind her as the ENGINES WHINE to life: 

REY: No! This ship hasn't been flown in years! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNNER POSITION - DAY

Finn buckles into the gunner seat -- to his shock the SEAT WHIPS TO THE LEFT, startling him -- he grabs the controls to steady himself.

FINN: Great.
(reacts to seat) Whoa! I can do this, I can do this-- 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Rey bucks herself up. Doesn't believe her quick words: 

REY: I can do this, I can do this-- Rey pulls the yoke: 
THE FALCON ENGINES LIGHT UP BRIGHT! 
EXT. NIIMA OUTPOST - SPACEPORT - DAY

The FALCON RISES, WILDLY -- ITS TARPS FLY OFF -- THE SHIP

SPINS AND TILTS, SLAMS INTO AND CRUMBLES THE TOWN'S ARCHWAY! From the tents, Unkar Plutt runs out, SCREAMS: 
UNKAR

HEY!!!! THAT'S MIIIIIIINE!!! The Falcon BLASTS AWAY, two TIE FIGHTERS chase it, fast! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAY

Rey pilots, headed for the sky! Finn SWINGS into frame, trying to work the GUNS.

FINN: Whoa! Hey! Oh! Stay low! Stay low! 
REY

WHAT? 

FINN: Stay low! It confuses their tracking! For a crazy instant Rey LETS GO OF THE YOKE, stretches to the co-pilot controls -- THE FALCON CANTS! 

REY: BB-8, hold on! Rey finally REACHES the switches, returns to the yoke, stabilizing the ship, afraid of this next move.

REY

I'M GOING LOW!!! 
EXT. DESERT - DAY

BEHIND THE FALCON as it DRAMATICALLY BANKS AT AN UPWARD ARC, UPSIDE-DOWN, then SWOOPS PERILOUSLY LOW across the sand.
Two TIE FIGHTERS SCREAM past us! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAY

In the cylindrical corridor, BB-8 ROLLS TO THE CEILING! Rey looks back for a flash as the TIE Fighters pass -- They are ROCKED BY A BLAST! 

REY: What are you doing back there? Are you ever gonna fire back?! 

Finn flicks switches -- The GUN TARGETING LIGHTS UP: 

FINN: I'm working on it! Are the shields up? Rey strains, reaching for something in the co-pilot seat.

REY: Not so easy without a co-pilot! Finn struggles with the gun controls and SWEEPING CHAIR: 

FINN: Try sitting in this thing! Finn finally FIRES BACK at the two TIE FIGHTERS! 
EXT. DESERT - DAY

Finn's shots MISS. The TIE FIGHTERS ARC BACK IN PURSUIT and SCREAM PAST US toward the Falcon! Both TIES FIRING! 
INT. TIE FIGHTER COCKPIT - DAY

The BLACK-SUITED PILOT FIRES at the Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNNER POSITION - DAY

The Falcon is ROCKED by another BLAST! 

FINN: We need cover, quick! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Rey HITS SWITCHES, pilots the best she can: 

REY: We're about to get some! 
(TO HERSELF) I hope.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

The Falcon speeds through a ROCK FORMATION, GRAZING THE ROCK, TAKING OUT A CHUNK -- the two TIE Fighters in pursuit, FIRING! The Falcon BANKS SO HARD, the edge of the ship RIPS A LINE IN THE SAND as it turns, REVEALING THE SHIP GRAVEYARD AHEAD.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAY

BB-8 EXTENDS MAGNETIC CABLES to brace himself in a corridor.

FINN: Damn it! Rey maneuvers the ship deeper into the graveyard.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNNER POSITION - DAY

Finn SWOOPS into frame, FIRES -- 

FINN: Come on... come on...
-- HITS AND SHATTERS the TIE FIGHTER! 

REY: Nice shot! 

FINN: I'm getting pretty good at this! 
EXT. DESERT - SPACESHIP GRAVEYARD - DAY

The TIE FIGHTER CRASHES amid the DEBRIS, THREE SCAVENGERS instantly there to consume the new bounty.
The Falcon, pursued by the ONE REMAINING TIE FIGHTER, slaloms through the MASSIVE WRECKAGE, GRAZING THE OLD SHIPS as she goes, pieces flying.
The TIE FIGHTER FIRES -- HITTING THE FALCON'S LOWER TURRET, 
SPINNING IT, JAMMING IT INTO FORWARD POSITION! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNNER POSITION - DAY

ALARMS BLARE -- 

FINN: The cannon's stuck in forward position, I can't move it! You gotta lose 'em! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

The ship is HIT AGAIN -- afraid, Rey's mind races as she scans the area -- and gets an idea.

REY: Get ready! 

FINN: Okay! For what? 
EXT. DESERT - SPACESHIP GRAVEYARD - DAY

Rey pilots the ship up AND INTO THE REAR OF A CRASHED SUPER STAR DESTROYER! The final TIE FIGHTER FOLLOWS! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAY

Finn peers out the window, realizing where they are: 
FINN

ARE WE REALLY DOING THIS?! 
INT. WRECKED SUPER STAR DESTROYER - DAY

The two ships slalom debris inside the giant ship -- the Falcon GRAZING ONE SIDE, THEN THE OTHER, SPITTING SPARKS! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAY

Rey, scared, girds herself as she quickly runs out of space in the wreck.

REY: Oh no! Just as the TIE PILOT GETS A LOCK, Rey YANKS THE YOKE -- 
EXT. DESERT - SPACESHIP GRAVEYARD - DAY

The Falcon makes a HARD RIGHT TURN out of the Destroyer.
Rey then CUTS POWER AND FLIPS THE SHIP SO BACK FACES FRONT! FINN CAN NOW SEE THE PURSUING TIE FIGHTER! He FIRES, 
DESTROYING IT! REY GUNS THE ENGINES again, FLIPS THE FALCON and FLIES AWAY as the TIE FIGHTER CRASHES! 

FINN: Whooo! The Falcon ROARS OFF, victorious, leaving the ship graveyard and disappearing into the clouds.

EXT. SPACE - DAY

The Falcon ROARS from Jakku off to space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Rey excitedly unbuckles her seatbelt and hurries back.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CORRIDOR - DAY

Rey races past BB-8, who is RETRACTING his safety restraints.
Finn, adrenalized, climbs from the turret, meets Rey in the corridor, the LOUNGE in the b.g..

. You got him with one (beat) blast! You set me up for it! (laughs) (cocky) It was perfect! That was pretty good.
They're just staring at each other now, seeing something odd and weird and wonderful -- two people totally inexperienced in joy and camaraderie.
Bb-8 BEEPS something urgent -- she turns to the droid, kneels.

REY: You're ok. He's with the Resistance.
He's going to get you home. We both will.

(TO FINN) I don't know your name.

FINN: Finn. What's yours.

REY: I'm Rey.
BB-8 looks at him: really? Finn is reminded: HE'S LIED TO HER. She looks at Finn with a sweet smile.

FINN: Rey...
But before Finn can say anything they JUMP: across the lounge, STEAM BURSTS from under the grating.

REY: Help me with this! Quick! They hurry to the grating, PULL IT UP together. BB-8 rolls over, watches.

FINN: Whoa! What's going on? She goes below as BB-8 BEEPS concern.

EXT. SPACE - DAY

The First Order Star Destroyer above Jakku.

INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE - DAY

Lieutenant Mitaka moves to Ren, who looks out across the star field. Mitaka swallows, uneasy with his task.

LIEUTENANT MITAKA: Sir. We were unable to acquire the droid on Jakku.
Ren turns to look at him, he says nothing.

LIEUTENANT MITAKA: It escaped capture aboard a stolen Corellian YT model freighter.

KYLO REN: The droid... stole a freighter? 

LIEUTENANT MITAKA: Not exactly, sir. It had help.
Ren says nothing. Which says everything. Mitaka sweats.

LIEUTENANT MITAKA: We have no confirmation, but we believe FN-2187 may have been helped in the escape-- Ren IGNITES HIS LIGHTSABER, TURNS AND SLASHES AT THE CONSOLE BEHIND HIM! HOLD ON Mitaka, who reacts, looks away -- winces.
The horrible SOUNDS of Ren's rage continues. Finally Mitaka looks up. The metallic wall behind Ren is RIPPED with glowing scars.

KYLO REN: Anything else? Mitaka hates to say the following, but: 

LIEUTENANT MITAKA: The two were accompanied by a girl.
Ren reaches out -- Mitaka is suddenly, violently PULLED TOWARD REN, into his black glove: 

KYLO REN: What girl? 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - LOUNGE AREA - DAY

Rey's head POPS up from under the grating, surrounded by STEAM. An EMERGENCY ALARM BLARES.

REY: It's the motivator! Grab me a Harris wrench -- check in there! As he checks a storage box, she disappears down below, overwhelmed by the technical issues -- 

FINN: How bad is it?! 

REY: If we wanna live, not good! BB-8 watches as Finn searches A SELECTION OF TOOLS: 

FINN: They're hunting for us now, we gotta get outta this system! Rey re-emerges, Finn hands her the wrench.

REY: BB-8 said the location of the Resistance Base is "need to know" -- if I'm taking you there, I need to know! 

FINN: Throws a tool) This? She catches it and goes under again, leaving Finn and BB-8 alone. He contemplates telling her the truth. This is his moment. But instead he knees to BB-8, says quietly, urgently: 
FINN: You gotta tell us where the base is.

(BB-8 BEEPS) I don't speak that. Alright, between us, I'm not with the Resistance, okay? (BB-8 backs up) -- I'm just trying to get away from the First Order -- but you tell us where your base is, I'll get there first -- deal?! (BB-8 COCKS his head) Droid, please.
Rey pops up again: 

REY: Pilex driver, hurry! Finn moves for the tool.

REY: So where's your base? 

FINN: (searching, to BB-8) Go on BB-8, tell her.

(QUIETLY) Please! She and Finn look to BB-8 -- who considers the whole situation, then BEEPS.

REY: The Ileenium system? Finn hands her the tool, surprised but thrilled -- Rey disappears below again.

FINN: Yeah, the Ileenium system, that's the one -- get us there as fast as you can.
A smiling Finn gives BB-8 a THUMBS UP. BB-8 quickly extends his WELDING TORCH and TURNS IT UPWARD, then retracts it.

REY: I'll drop you two at Ponemah Terminal.
I need the bonding tape, hurry! 

FINN: (searching for tape) What about you? 

REY: I gotta get back to Jakku! 

FINN: (loses his mind) BACK TO JAK--?! Why does everyone always wanna go back to Jakku?! ! 

REY: No, that one! No. No. The one I'm pointing to! No. NO. NO. If we don't patch it up, the propulsion tank will overflow and flood the ship with poisonous gas! Bb-8 has moved to Finn -- TIPS HIS HEAD, shows him the tool.
He throws her the tape, she disappears below: 

FINN: This? 

REY: Yes! 

FINN: Hey. Rey. You're a pilot -- you can fly anywhere! Why go back?! You got a family? You got a boyfriend? Cute boyfriend? The STEAM and ALARM STOP as Rey pops up, annoyed: 

REY: None of your business, THAT'S WHY! But then: ALL THE SHIP POWER GOES OUT. BB-8 is nervous.

FINN: ... That can't be good.

REY

(HEADS OFF) -- No it can't be -- 
FINN FOLLOWS REY TO: 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

They plop into the seats, in a panic. She checks the dead 
INSTRUMENTATION PANEL: 

REY: Someone's locked onto us -- all controls are overridden.
Finn quickly, awkwardly climbs up, looks out.

REY: Get off. Get off! See anything? 

FINN: ... Oh no.

EXT. SPACE - DAY

The Millennium Falcon, powerless, is a sitting duck.
SOMETHING EPIC appears from ABOVE: THE ANTENNA ARRAY IS THE

FIRST WE SEE OF A MASSIVE FREIGHTER, ITS GIANT HANGAR OPEN

LIKE A HUGE MOUTH WHICH SWALLOWS THE FALCON LIKE A WHALE! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Finn PLOPS into his seat, horrified.

FINN: It's the First Order.

REY: What do we do-- there must be 
SOMETHING -- Finn's mind races -- then: 

FINN: You said poisonous gas -- 

REY: -- Yeah, but I fixed that -- 

FINN: Can you unfix it? Rey stares at him -- and gets his plan! They head off -- 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - LOUNGE AREA - DAY

The GAS MASKS hanging in the lounge are GRABBED.

REY: C'mon BB-8.
They help BB-8 down, too: they both struggle like crazy, he weighs a TON.

FINN: I got it.

REY: Oooh...

FINN: I'm okay. BB-8 get off me...

UNDER THE GRATING: Finn pulls the grating over them as Rey works on the controls.

REY: You think this'll work on the Stormtroopers? 

FINN: Yeah. Their masks filter out smoke, not toxins.
LIGHTS COME ON! SOUND of the SHIP RAMP LOWERING! Finn PULLS THE GRATING CLOSED as he says: 
FINN: Hurry! 

REY: I'm hurrying! Suddenly the FALCON DOOR OPENS -- AND HAN SOLO AND CHEWBACCA BOARD THE FALCON, weapons at the ready. PUSH IN ON THEM, ready for combat, operating silently, with hand signals only.

HAN: Chewie, we're home.
Han gives Chewie a nod to check out the ship. Chewie heads off one way, Han in another.
The grating above LIFTS OFF -- hands in surrender, they look up at Han, who's training his blaster on them, threatening.
They're SCARED.

HAN: Where are the others? Where's the pilot? 

REY: ...I'm the pilot...

HAN: You? Chewie MOAN-TALKS. Rey responds to him -- 

REY: No, it's true: we're the only ones on board.

FINN: You can understand that thing? 

HAN: And "that thing" can understand you too, so watch it. Come on outta there.
They climb up -- BB-8 uses his magnetic arm to quickly pull himself out.

HAN: Where'd you get this ship? 

REY: Niima Outpost.

HAN: Jakku?! That junkyard? 

FINN: Thank you! Junkyard! 
HAN

(TO CHEWIE) Told ya we should've double-checked the Western Reaches! 
(TO REY) Who had it, Ducain? 

REY: I stole it from Unkar Plutt. He stole it from the Irving Boys, who stole it from Ducain.

HAN: Who stole it from me! Well, you tell him Han Solo just stole back the Millennium Falcon for good.
Han walks away, takes in the ship: it's his again. Doesn't see that Rey is awed. His back to all of them, he smiles.
Chewie responds as Han heads toward the cockpit.

REY: This is the Millennium Falcon? You're Han Solo? 

HAN: I used to be.

FINN: Han Solo? The Rebellion General? 

REY: No, the smuggler! 
FINN

(TO CHEWIE) Wasn't he a war hero?! Chewie replies: "Yeah, I guess, kinda..." Rey calls out: 

REY: This is the ship that made the Kessel Run in fourteen parsecs...! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - SAME

Han enters the cockpit.

HAN: Twelve! Fourteen.
A moment of private joy. Then he sees something that ANNOYS

HIM: 
HAN: Hey! Some moof-milker put a compressor on the ignition line! Han moves to the corridor.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - LOUNGE AREA - DAY

REY: Unkar Plutt did. I thought it was a mistake too, puts too much stress on 
THE HYPERDRIVE-- 
HAN

(OVERLAPPING HER) -- Stress on the hyperdrive-- (who is she? Then:) Chewie, throw 'em in a pod, we'll drop them at the nearest inhabited planet.

REY: Wait! No -- we need your help! 

HAN: My help? 

REY: This droid has to get to the Resistance base as soon as possible! 

FINN: He's carrying a map to Luke Skywalker.
Yup: Han stops in his tracks.

FINN: You are the Han Solo that fought with the Rebellion. You knew him.
The mention of Luke has really hit Han. He turns to Finn.

HAN: Yeah, I knew him. I knew Luke.
Suddenly: a distant, METALLIC KA-CHUNK! 
HAN: Don't tell me a Rathtar's gotten 
LOOSE-- Han hurries out -- they all follow, (Chewie, Rey, Finn, then BB-8), Finn with WILD CONCERN: 

FINN: Wait -- a what?! Did you just say Rathtars? Hey! 
INT. CARGO SHIP - HANGAR - DAY

The Falcon is parked in this giant freighter's hangar. Han moves to a CONTROL PANEL, they all follow him.

FINN: You're not hauling Rathtars on this freighter, are you? 

HAN: I'm hauling Rathtars.
On the CONTROL PANEL: IMAGES ON SCREENS FROM ALL AROUND THE SHIP. Including the EXTERIOR, where a TRANSPORT SHIP is LANDING ON THE FREIGHTER. Han is fearful.

HAN: Oh great. It's the Guavian Death Gang -- they must've tracked us from Nantoon.
Han heads off as: 

REY: What's a Rathtar? 
INT. CARGO SHIP - CARGO CONTAINER CORRIDOR - DAY

Han leads our group down a LONG NARROW HALL lined with cargo containers.

FINN: Y'ever heard of the Trillia Massacre?! 

REY: No.

FINN: Good.
They turn a corner: 

HAN: I got three of 'em going to King Prana.

FINN THREE?! How'd you get them on board? 

HAN: I used to have a bigger crew.
Chewie GROAN-TALKS, concurring.

CUT TO: LOOKING UP AS A HATCH OPENS IN THE FLOOR. HAN AND

CO. ARE THERE.

HAN: Get below deck and stay there until I say so -- don't even think about taking the Falcon.

REY: What about BB-8? 

HAN: He stays with me -- until I get rid of the gang, then you can have him back and be on your way.

FINN: What about the Rathtars... where are you keeping them? A TERRIFYING BAM: a GROTESQUE RATHTAR GIANT TONGUE SLAMS into the CARGO CONTAINER window behind Finn, whose heart stops.

HAN: There's one.

REY: What are you gonna do? 

HAN: Same thing I always do: talk my way out of it.

(CHEWIE MOAN-TALKS) Yes, I do. Every time.

INT. CARGO SHIP - NARROW CORRIDOR - DAY

A PORTAL opens. The GUAVIAN DEATH GANG enters. One man in a SUIT (BALA-TIK), and five SECURITY SOLDIERS in badass UNIFORMS with ROUND-FACE HELMETS. They turn into and stop at one end of the corridor. Han, Chewie and BB-8 forty feet away in the middle of the long hall.

BALA-TIK: Han Solo. You are a dead man.
Han smiles innocently, friendly. BB-8 nervously looks back and forth at the gang, and Han.

HAN: Bala-Tik. What's the problem? 

BALA-TIK: The problem is we loaned you fifty thousand for this job.

INTERCUT WITH: 
INT. CARGO SHIP - BELOW FLOOR GRATING - DAY

They look up, trying to get a view.

REY: Can you see them? 

FINN: No.
They start crawling down the crawl space.

BALA-TIK: I heard you also borrowed fifty thousand from Kanjiklub.

HAN: You know you can't trust those little freaks! How long've we known each other? Rey and Finn arrive under the gang. They WHISPER: 

REY: They have blasters...

FINN: A lot of 'em.
We RISE THROUGH THE FLOOR to see the GANG and Han and company in the distance.

BALA-TIK: The question is how much longer will we know each other? Not long. We want our money back now.

HAN: Ya think hunting Rathtars is cheap? I spent that money.

BALA-TIK: Kanjiklub wants their investment back, too.

HAN: I never made a deal with Kanjiklub! 

BALA-TIK: Tell that to Kanjiklub.
The SOUND of a PORTAL OPENING. Han's face GOES WHITE as he turns to the OTHER END OF THE CORRIDOR, where KANJIKLUB MEMBERS APPEAR. A GANG in a MEDIEVAL BANDITO style.
Han smiles uncomfortably at the Kanjiklub members. Its LEADER, TASU LEECH, out front. Han tries to play it off: 

HAN: Tasu Leech. Good to see you.
Tasu speaks an alien language, we SUBTITLE: 

TASU LEECH: Wrong again, Solo. It's over for you.
Tasu COCKS HIS WEAPON, there for blood. BB-8 is nervous.
Finn and Rey react to the sounds of the new gang -- start CRAWLING BACK the other way to see them.

HAN: Boys. You're both gonna get what I promised! Have I ever not delivered for you before? 

BALA-TIK: Yeah.

TASU LEECH: Twice! Han realizes he's right.

HAN: What was the second time? 

BALA-TIK: Your game is old. There's no one in the galaxy left for you to swindle.

TASU LEECH: Nowhere left for you to hide.

BALA-TIK: That BB unit... the First Order is looking for one just like it. And two fugitives.
Finn and Rey SUDDENLY STOP CRAWLING, tense.
BB-8 hides behind Han's leg. PUSH IN ON Han as he realizes: Finn and Rey are in real trouble.

HAN: First I've heard of it.
Below the grating, Finn and Rey look at each other, afraid.
Above, another Kanjiklubber (RAZOO QIN-FEE) says (SUBTITLED): 

RAZOO QIN-FEE: Search the freighter.
One of the Kanjiklubbers begins moving down the corridor, AIMING A FLASHLIGHT DOWN BELOW, searching for: FINN AND REY, in a QUIET PANIC BELOW: THEY START CRAWLING FAST in the opposite direction they came.
Rey crawls off fast, Finn follows. They quickly arrive at a JUNCTION BOX AREA, Rey looking at the controls.

REY: Wait wait wait wait. If we close the blast doors in that corridor, we can trap both gangs! 

FINN: Close the blast doors from here? 

REY: Resetting the fuses should do it.
Rey begins RESETTING the FUSES, SPARKS shooting from them as they do. Finn quickly joins in.
Rey and Finn FINISH resetting the fuses boxes. Rey smiles optimistically. Finn looks hopeful too.
DOWN AN EMPTY ROW OF LARGE CONTAINERS, which OPEN -- and a GIANT RATHTAR -- an ENORMOUS, FIERCE AND RAVENOUS LAND OCTOPUS -- 
SLITHERS OUT OF ITS CAGE! BACK UP TOP as BANKS OF LIGHTS BEGIN GOING OFF, ONE BY ONE.
The GANGS look around.
Han's eyes go wide -- he gets it -- and it's bad. QUIETLY: 

HAN: ... I got a bad feeling about this...
Suddenly all the LIGHTS COME ON AGAIN -- even down below, where Rey realizes it hasn't gone as planned.

REY: Oh no.

FINN: Oh no, what? 
REY

(PALE) Wrong fuses.

IN ANOTHER CORRIDOR, BACK WITH THE GANGS: 

BALA-TIK: Kill them! And take the droid! The gangs AIM THEIR WEAPONS JUST AS A RATHTAR APPEARS BEHIND

THE GUAVIAN DEATH GANG, GRABBING TWO MEMBERS! THE OTHERS SCREAM AND RUN! The gang FIRES BACK -- BLASTS FLY! Han and Chewie react, flinching -- then turn to Kanjiklub as a RATHTAR APPEARS BEHIND THEM, ROARING DEAFENINGLY! The Gang turns -- others run, FIRE AT IT.

INT. CARGO SHIP CORRIDOR A - DAY

Han, Chewie and BB-8 race down the hall -- A MEMBER OF THE KANJIKLUB GANG comes around the corner. Han PUNCHES him with one blow, throws him toward the Rathtar. They keep steppin....

INT. CARGO SHIP - BELOW FLOOR GRATING - DAY

Rey and Finn hurriedly crawl through the space below decks.

FINN: This was a mistake! 

REY: Huge! 
INT. CARGO SHIP CORRIDOR A - DAY

Two Guavian Death Gang members run through the ship -- passing Tasu Leech, who sees another Kanjiklub member down the corridor -- who gets GRABBED BY A TENTACLE! Tasu tries to help him, but he gets PULLED UP AND AWAY! Tasu hears a distant terror-scream of a Rathtar, and runs the other way.
Other Kanjiklub members YELL at him to avoid that direction -- they all turn a corner -- a RATHTAR IS THERE AND GRABS THE TWO OTHERS! Tasu FIRES at the beast and RUNS OFF -- and we land on a FLOOR HATCH, which opens. Rey and Finn climb out, quickly.

They turn a corridor -- 

REY: What do they look like? 

FINN: They look like that.
Finn yanks her away. They race around another corner -- a 
RATHTAR IS THERE! 
FINN: This way! 

REY: Are you sure? They scream and run off -- but Finn is GRABBED, PULLED AWAY

FAST! 
REY: 
FINN! But the Rathtar's fast and TURNS A CORNER, losing Rey -- 
FINN

REY! 
INT. CARGO SHIP CORRIDOR E - DAY

TIGHT ON FINN as he's being yanked down the hall, SCREAMING as he struggles to get loose! Rey turns the corner -- Finn is gone -- nowhere to be seen.

REY

FINN!!!! Without Finn, she is instantly distraught -- then she realizes: SHE'S JUST PASSED A CONTROL PANEL! Her eyes light up as she moves to it: a BANK OF VIDEO MONITORS OF THE SHIP -- and there's Finn, being dragged by a Rathtar toward an OPEN BLAST DOOR. Rey's hand on the button, she waits... then 
SLAMS THE BUTTON! 
INT. CARGO SHIP CORRIDOR B - DAY

The BLAST DOOR INSTANTLY CLOSES ON ONE OF THE RATHTAR'S TENTACLES! It SCREAMS IN PAIN, ITS SEVERED TENTACLE STILL WRAPPED AROUND FINN'S LEG! Finn scrambles up, desperately shaking the sticky tentacle off his leg! Rey arrives, runs to Finn, beaming to see him alive -- he is adrenaline-rushed, in shock: 

REY: Finn! 

FINN: It had me! But the door--! 

REY: That was lucky! ANOTHER CORRIDOR - Finn and Rey run towards the Falcon.

INT. CARGO SHIP CORRIDOR D - DAY

Han, Chewie and BB-8 take cover, Han exchanging BLASTER FIRE with GANG MEMBERS AT THE OTHER END OF THE HALL.

HAN: I got the door. Cover us! Chewie GROAN-AGREES. Chewie FIRES DOWN THE HALL as Han CROSSES THE CORRIDOR, BB-8 following nervously. As Chewie exchanges blaster fire, Han works the controls.
THE HATCH OPENS (FALCON in the distance) -- just as CHEWIE IS HIT IN THE SHOULDER BY ENEMY FIRE! He goes down with a 
LOUD GROAN! 
HAN: Chewie! You okay? Han GRABS CHEWIE'S BOWCASTER, FIRES at the DOOR CONTROLS, 
BADASS! 
HAN: (looks at bowcaster) Wow. Come on! Come on! 
INT. CARGO SHIP HANGAR - DAY

Run with Finn and Rey as they turn into the hangar, toward the Falcon. Han helps WOUNDED CHEWIE up the ramp, sees them.

REY: Han! Finn and Rey race past BB-8 -- as they go up the ramp, Han says to Rey: 

HAN: You, close the door behind us! 
(TO FINN) You take care of Chewie! Han and Rey race up the ramp as Finn heads up with Chewie, who SCREAMS WILDLY IN PAIN! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Han stands at the navicomputer, hitting switches. Rey enters fast, moves past him to Chewie's seat.

HAN: Hey, where are you going? 

REY: Unkar Plutt installed a fuel pump too -- if we don't prime that we're not going anywhere.

HAN: I hate that guy.
Han sits as, Rey hitting buttons: 

REY: And you could use a co-pilot.

HAN: I got one, he's back there.

IN THE LOUNGE, CHEWIE IS IN PAIN -- 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Han and Rey in the seats: 

HAN: Watch the thrust, we're goin' out of here at lightspeed -- 
REY

(SHOCKED) From inside the hangar? Is that even possible? 

HAN: I never ask that question until after I've done it.
A RATHTAR JUMPS ONTO THE WINDSHIELD -- REY SCREAMS! Its GIANT MOUTH CHEWING AT THE GLASS! Han works the controls: 
HAN: This is not how I thought this day was gonna go -- angle the shields -- Hang on back there! IN THE LOUNGE, Chewie is in pain -- Finn going through a first aid kit -- the ship is HIT again -- 
FINN

(HUGE PROBLEM) No problem! 
INT. CARGO SHIP - HANGAR - DAY

Three GANG MEMBERS race out here and FIRE AT THE FALCON -- hitting FUEL LINES, BLASTING THE SHIP HARD! The ship is hit.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

HAN: Come on baby, don't let me down! He hits a switch -- but NOTHING.

HAN: What?! But Rey reaches over, hits a switch, matter-of-factly.

REY: Compressor.
Han doesn't like it but she's right -- he hits the switch again and the HYPERDRIVE FIRES! The hangar is FILLED WITH LIGHTSPEED BLAST as the ATTACKING GANG MEMBERS ARE BLASTED BACK LIKE DRY LEAVES. In the cockpit the RATHTAR RIPS AWAY as THE STARS STRETCH LIKE ELASTIC and we CUT TO: 
EXT. CARGO SHIP - DAY

Camera ROTATES as the Falcon DISAPPEARS IN A STREAK, leaving the cargo ship behind.

INT. CARGO SHIP - DAY

PUSH IN on a HANGAR DOOR where Bala-Tik arrives at the window, SEETHING. Makes a CALL: 

BALA-TIK: Inform the First Order that Han Solo has the droid they want. And it's aboard the Millennium Falcon.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

A pair of TIE fighters roar towards a magnificent PLANET, frozen WHITE. This is the STARKILLER BASE, a natural planet that has been hacked and modified into something sinister.
Over this we HEAR a DEEP, almost SOOTHING VOICE. A voice very much in control, of power: 
SNOKE (V.O.) The droid will soon be delivered to the Resistance...

INT. STARKILLER PLANET - ASSEMBLY ROOM - NIGHT

KYLO REN and General Hux in a dark space, looking UPWARD at someone addressing them.
We're in a massive and dark ASSEMBLY ROOM. Hundreds of DESKS in a stadium arc, focused on a platform where we see SUPREME LEADER SNOKE. Not entirely human, at nearly twenty-five feet tall. All of him a STONY GREY. Old, wounded, fragile and powerful, all at the same time.

SNOKE: ... Leading them to the last Jedi.
If Skywalker returns, the new Jedi will rise.

GENERAL HUX: Supreme Leader, I take full responsibility for th-- 

SNOKE: General! Our strategy must now change.

GENERAL HUX: The weapon. It is ready. I believe the time has come to use it. We shall destroy the government that supports the Resistance, the Republic.
Without their friends to protect them, the Resistance will be vulnerable, and we will stop them before they reach Skywalker.
Snoke considers. Almost seems to die for a moment. Then: 

SNOKE: Go. Oversee preparations.

GENERAL HUX: Yes, Supreme Leader.
General Hux, proud, cocksure, exits. Kylo Ren watches him go. Snoke SITS. A new intimacy in his voice.

SNOKE: There's been an awakening. Have you felt it? 

KYLO REN: Yes.

SNOKE: There's something more. The droid we seek is aboard the Millennium Falcon. In the hands of your father, Han Solo.
Kylo Ren reacts with subtle, but real, surprise.

KYLO REN: He means nothing to me.

SNOKE: Even you, master of the Knights of Ren, have never faced such a test.

YLO REN

(STEELY RESOLVE) By the grace of your training, I will not be seduced.

SNOKE: We shall see. We shall see.
A gentle, satisfied nod from Snoke, and Kylo Ren, obsessed, filled up, exits. Snoke watches him disappear, a grotesque evil SMILE growing -- as he DISINTEGRATES -- Snoke has been a HOLOGRAM all along.

EXT. LIGHTSPEED SPACE - DAY

RACING with the Falcon through the STRINGLIGHT of lightspeed.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAY

CHAOS: INTERCUT between the COCKPIT where Han and Rey pilot, ALARMS SOUNDING, problems everywhere, and the LOUNGE where CHEWIE YELPS as Finn nervously works to BANDAGE HIS SHOULDER.

SPARKS! 

HAN: Electrical overload! 

REY: I can fix that! 

HAN: The coolant's leaking! 

REY: Try transferring auxiliary power to the secondary tank-- 

HAN: -- Secondary tank, I got it! 
INT. LOUNGE: 
CHEWIE HOWLS IN PAIN! Finn hangs in there, wraps a bandage on Chewie's shoulder: Chewie ROARS. BB-8 scurries off.

FINN: Chewie, come on! I need help with this giant hairy thing! Stop moving! Chewie! 
INT. FALCON COCKPIT: 

HAN: You hurt Chewie, you're gonna deal with me! 
INT. LOUNGE: 
As Finn struggles to bandage the Wookiee: 

FINN: Hurt him?! He almost killed me six times! (Chewie GRABS HIM by the collar, ROARS) Which is fine.

INT. FALCON COCKPIT: 

HAN: This hyperdrive blows there's gonna be pieces of us in three different systems.
Han at the controls when all the alarms STOP. Rey, satisfied, sits in the co-pilot seat. Han is confused.

HAN: What'd you do? 

REY: I by-passed the compressor.
He looks at her. A little, appreciative laugh. Han exits, walking past BB-8.

HAN: Move, Ball.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - LOUNGE AREA - DAY

Han kneels at Chewie, who lies awake but recovering. Han checks his friend's wound with care. Chewie MOAN-TALKS.

HAN: Nah, don't say that, you did great.
Just rest.
Han turns to Finn, who sits at the HOLOCHESS set, BB-8 beside him. This is awkward for Han, but damn, he means it: 
HAN: Good job, kid. And thanks.

FINN: You're welcome.
Finn has accidentally hit a button on the chess set, and the PIECES appear, looking up at Finn, curiously. The pieces start to FIGHT as Finn fiddles with the controls, trying to turn it off.

HAN: So, fugitives, huh? 

REY: The First Order wants the map.

(MORE) 
EY: (re: Finn and BB-8) Finn is with the Resistance...

(SHRUGS) ... I'm just a scavenger.
Han gives Finn a skeptical once-over as Finn finally manages to TURN THE CHESS SET OFF as Rey enters. Han looks to BB-8.

HAN: Let's see whatcha got.

REY

(TO BB-8) Go ahead.
BB-8 rolls forward -- and suddenly PROJECTS A HOLOGRAPHIC

MAP, FILLING THE ROOM. PLANETS, STARS, SYSTEMS.
They all react. Chewie sits to look up. Han moves through stars, becomes reflective.

HAN: This map's not complete. It's just a piece. Ever since Luke disappeared, people have been looking for him.

REY: Why'd he leave? 

HAN: He was training a new generation of Jedi. One boy, an apprentice turned against him, destroyed it all. Luke felt responsible... He walked away from everything.

FINN: Do you know what happened to him? 

HAN: There're a lot of rumors. Stories.
The people who knew him the best think he went looking for the first Jedi temple.

REY: The Jedi were real? 

HAN: I used to wonder that myself. Thought it was a bunch of mumbo-jumbo -- magical power holding together good, evil, the dark side and the light.

(BEAT) 'Crazy thing is, it's true. The Force, the Jedi, all of it. It's all true.

OWN: 
HAN: No, you rest.
(To Rey and Finn) You want my help? You're getting it. Gonna see an old friend. She'll get your droid home. This is our stop.
Han leaves towards the cockpit, Rey and Finn following.

EXT. LIGHTSPEED TO SPACE - DAY

BEHIND THE FALCON as it DROPS OUT OF LIGHTSPEED, revealing a BEAUTIFUL GREEN PLANET ahead, TAKODANA.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Han pilots. Finn and BB-8 beside him, Rey as co-pilot.
Han notices Rey looking out the windshield, almost in tears.

REY

(QUIETLY) ... I didn't know there was this much green in the whole galaxy...
Han watches her -- sees a vulnerability that touches him.

EXT. TAKODANA PLANET - DAY

The Falcon CRESTS OVER an ENDLESS GREEN FOREST TO REVEAL a CASTLE on a picturesque LAKE.
The Falcon lands near the castle, among dozens of WORN, smallish freighters.

EXT. LANDING PAD - NEAR MAZ'S CASTLE - DAY

Rey steps off the Falcon, UP TO CAMERA, BB-8 at her side.
She takes in the towering stone CASTLE, FOREST to one side, LAKE to the other. Serene, beautiful, all new to her.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - LOUNGE AREA - DAY

From BLACKNESS: a storage unit opens. Han rummages, retrieving old BLASTERS. Finn arrives behind him, concerned.

FINN: Hey, Solo -- I'm not sure what we're walking into here -- 

HAN: D'you just call me "Solo"? 

FINN: Sorry. Han-- Mr. Solo. You should know, I'm a big deal in the Resistance. Which puts a real target on my back. Are there any conspirators here? First Order sympathizers? 

HAN: Listen big deal, you've got another problem. Women always figure out the truth.
Hands him a BLASTER.

HAN: Always.
Han walks off. Finn watches him go, wracked with guilt.

EXT. MAZ'S CASTLE - DAY

Han hands Rey a blaster pistol as she stands at looks at the castle.

HAN: You might need this.

REY: I think I can handle myself.

HAN: I know you do. That's why I'm giving it to you. Take it.
Rey picks it up. Grips it.

HAN: You know how to use one of these? 

REY: Yeah, you pull the trigger.

HAN: There's a little bit more to it than that. You got a lot to learn. You got a name? 

REY: Rey.

HAN: Rey. I've been thinkin' about bringing on some more crew, Rey. A second mate. Someone to help out.
Someone who can keep up with Chewie and me, appreciates the Falcon.

REY: Are you offering me a job? 

HAN: I wouldn't be nice to you. It doesn't pay much.

REY: You're offering me a job.

HAN: I'm thinking about it.
Rey wants to say yes. But something stops her. A line she can't cross.

HAN: Well? 

REY: If you were, I'd be flattered. But I have to get home.
Han looks at her, questioningly.

HAN: Jakku? Rey looks off, in thought. Yeah, Jakku.

REY

(BEAT) I've already been away too long.

HAN

(TO CHEWIE) Chewie, check out the ship as best you can.

HAN: It's too bad. Chewie kind of likes you.
Han heads off. HOLD on Rey.

EXT. MAZ'S CASTLE - DAY

Han walks them to the castle.

FINN: Solo, why are we here again? 

HAN: To get your droid on a clean ship.

REY: Clean? 

HAN: Do you think it was luck that Chewie and I found the Falcon? If we can find it on our scanners, the First Order's not far behind. Want to get BB-8 to the Resistance? Maz Kanata is our best bet.

FINN: We can trust her, right? 

HAN: Relax, kid. She's run this watering hole for a thousand years. Maz is a bit of an acquired taste, so let me do the talking. And whatever you do, don't stare...

REY AND FINN: At what? 

HAN: Any of it.
The door opens. Music. Madness. And...

INT. MAZ'S CASTLE - MAIN ROOM - DAY

We ENTER THE LOUD, CROWDED MESS of a hall -- PUSHING PAST a room full of rough and odd ALIENS AND HUMANS, who gamble, drink, scheme, negotiate, argue -- until we end up on the BACK of a tiny, thousand year-old, four foot tall ALIEN, who suddenly STARTS, as if SENSING something -- the Alien TURNS TO US: she is FEMALE, wearing large ADJUSTABLE GOGGLES.
This is MAZ KANATA.

MAZ: Han Solo! Everyone turns to look. It's ALL QUIET in here.

HAN: Sotto) Oh boy. (Louder, waving) Hey, Maz! NOISE returns. Maz walks to them, pushes someone away.

MAZ: Where's my boyfriend? 

HAN: Chewie's working on the Falcon.

MAZ: I like that Wookiee. I assume you need something. Desperately. Let's get to it.

 SMALL DROID (GA-97), who turns its head to see BB-8 following Rey across the room. GA-97, now animated, makes a small TRANSMITTING SOUND, which is subtitled.

GA-97 Alert the Resistance. Their missing droid is here! And we CUT TO: 

IN A DARK ALCOVE - MOMENTS LATER: Bazine enters a shadowy space, stealthily makes a call on a communicator. Clearly, BAZINE IS A SPY. Subtitled: 

BAZINE: Inform the First Order... I've found the droid.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

A massive Star Destroyer hovers over the hacked ice planet.

INT. STAR DESTROYER - KYLO REN'S CHAMBERS - DAY

A dark space. Kylo Ren, CLOSE TO CAMERA, addresses someone OFF-CAMERA whom we do not see.

KYLO REN: Forgive me. I feel it again. The pull to the light. Supreme Leader senses it. Show me again, the power of the darkness, and I will let nothing stand in our way. Show me, Grandfather, and I will finish what you started.
As his emotion builds, he stands and heads off -- we FOLLOW HIM, PIVOTING TO REVEAL who he was talking to: THE BURNT, 
ASHEN, GHOSTLY DEFORMED MASK OF DARTH VADER.

CUT TO: 
INT. MAZ'S CASTLE - TABLE - DAY

Maz is putting together some FOOD as she says: 

MAZ: A map to Skywalker himself? You're right back in the mess.

HAN: Maz, I need you to get this droid to Leia.

MAZ: Hmm. No. You've been running away from this fight for too long. Han, nyakee nago wadda. Go home! 

HAN: Leia doesn't want to see me.

FINN: Please, we came here for your help.

REY: What fight? 

MAZ: The only fight: against the dark side. Through the ages, I've seen evil take many forms. The Sith.
The Empire. Today, it is the First Order. Their shadow is spreading across the galaxy. We must face them. Fight them. All of us.

FINN: There is no fight against the First Order! Not one we can win. Look around. There's no chance we haven't been recognized already. I bet you the First Order is on their way right-- Finn stops, seeing Maz adjusting her goggles, scrutinizing him -- her eyes get HUGE.

FINN: What's this? What are you doing? Maz adjusts the goggles again. Her eyes get impossibly BIGGER. She grunts recognition. She hoists herself on the tabletop, knocking over food and plates, crawling towards Finn.

FINN: Solo, what is she doing? 

HAN: I don't know, but it ain't good.

MAZ: If you live long enough you see the same eyes in different people. I'm looking at the eyes of a man who wants to run.

FINN: (eyes on Maz) You don't know a thing about me.
Where I'm from. What I've seen.

(MORE) 

INN: You don't know the First Order like I do. They'll slaughter us. We all need to run.
Rey is stunned. Maz, not so much. She crawls back to her chair. She points to some pirates in the corner.

MAZ: You see those two? They'll trade work for transportation to the Outer Rim. There, you can disappear.
Finn sees them. Considers.

REY: Finn! 

FINN: Come with me.

REY: What about BB-8? We're not done yet. We have to get him back to your base.

FINN: I can't.
Finn stands to leave. He offers the gun back to Han.

HAN: Keep it, kid.
Finn heads off. Rey gets up to follow. Maz dials her lenses back to normal, and turns to Han.

MAZ: Who's the girl? 

ON FINN: Who has arrived at the table with the ALIEN SMUGGLERS.

FINN: I was told you could get me to the Outer Rim.
Rey barges into the conversation, interrupting.

REY: What are you doing? Finn gets up to talk to her.

FINN: (to Big Head) Don't leave without me.

REY: You can't just go. I won't let you.

FINN: I'm not who you think I am.

REY: Finn, what are you talking about? 

FINN: I'm not Resistance. I'm not a hero.
I'm a Stormtrooper.

(STOPS HER) Like all of them, I was taken from a family I'll never know. And raised to do one thing...

(EMOTIONAL) But my first battle, I made a choice.
I wasn't going to kill for them. So I ran.

FINN: Right into you. And you looked at me like no one ever had. I was ashamed of what I was. But I'm done with the First Order. I'm never going back. Rey, come with me.

REY: Don't go.

FINN: Take care of yourself. Please.
Rey looks at him, crushed. With quiet resignation, Rey watches Finn return to the aliens...
And all three head off. He gets to the front door and walks through it.
Rey is heartsick, but she turns as she hears the sound of a young girl in anguish, crying. She follows the sound into the castle, turning so she can't see that Finn has looked back at her one last time.

INT. MAZ' CASTLE - BASEMENT CORRIDOR - DAY

Rey steps down into the basement corridor. BB-8 follows her. Walking carefully and confused, she is not sure why she's down here. She can hear the echoing sounds of a young girl crying. She heads down the hall... to the very end, where there is a door. It is almost as if a SOULFUL VIBRATION draws her closer. She looks at the door lock -- AND THE

DOOR OPENS.
Hesitant, Rey enters.

INT. MAZ'S CASTLE - CRYPT ROOM - DAY

Rey moves into the dark, small, vaulted storage room. Old treasures line the floors and walls, but there is something specific Rey is drawn to: on a table, an old wooden BOX.
She moves to it, unsure, afraid, as if an energy from inside the box has been calling her here. BB-8 nervously follows.
Rey reaches out, very slowly, to touch the box. A moment heavy with tension.
Rey OPENS THE BOX and sees inside Luke Skywalker's original lightsaber. With hesitation, she reaches towards it, but she cannot resist. As her hand makes contact with it, there is the piercing sound of a lightsaber igniting. She moves her hand away, as REY HEARS A MECHANICAL BREATHING sound.
The CAMERA MOVES, LIGHTING CHANGES -- and we see behind her something impossible: a HALLWAY OF FROM DEEP INSIDE CLOUD CITY. Disembodied voices fill the air.

YOUNG GIRL

NO! She stands -- looks around, confused by all she sees and hears. -- Turns and sees, through a DOORWAY.
We follow Rey and she runs down the corridor, but it all TILTS -- TURNS -- and she lands on the WALL -- which is now the GROUND -- dried GRASS.
She turns to look -- we PIVOT -- and see a BURNING TEMPLE AT NIGHT. We PAN to: R2-D2 -- who watches the flames -- and a MAN appears (LUKE, whose face we do not see). He falls to his knees, reaches out to the droid -- with a MECHANICAL RIGHT HAND.
We PUSH IN ON REY as RAIN BEGINS -- and DAY TURNS TO NIGHT -- and she LOOKS UP -- we TILT UP -- To see we're LOOKING UP AT A WARRIOR as he is STABBED BY A FIERY LIGHTSABER! He screams and falls to the ground -- we FOLLOW HIM, revealing Rey again, now in a nighttime battlefield. She gets to her feet, frightened by what she sees. We PIVOT AROUND HER to REVEAL KYLO REN, and the six other KNIGHTS OF REN, who flank him! Come back around to Rey, soaking now, as the RAIN STOPS and SUNLIGHT illuminates her -- she turns to look -- we PIVOT -- and see...
A little girl. Rey as a child. She is sobbing, hysterical.
Unkar Plutt's meaty hand holds her thin arm. She is on Jakku, watching a starship fly into the sky, abandoning her.

YOUNG GIRL: No, come back! 

UNKAR PLUTT: Quiet, girl! The ship flies towards the desert sun, which is strangely eclipsed, as if being eaten by darkness. Rey looks around her to see she is..
In a NIGHTTIME, BARREN, SNOWY WOODS. She's losing her mind, confounded and lost and she gets to her feet, her breath seen in the frigid air -- and then: THE SOUND OF CLASHING LIGHTSABERS! She moves through the woods, toward the sound.

Rey runs, heart pounding, when KYLO REN EMERGES FROM BEHIND: A TREE! She stops, SCREAMS, FALLS BACK and LANDS IN: 
INT. MAZ' CASTLE - BASEMENT CORRIDOR - DAY

She falls back, out of the room, suddenly sitting in the hall, out of breath, alarmed and perplexed.
She HEARS something and turns to look.
Maz stands at the end of the corridor, realizing what has just happened.

REY: What was that? I shouldn't have gone in there.

MAZ: That lightsaber was Luke's. And his father's before him and now, it calls to you! Rey stands, fast. Still overwhelmed, emotional, speechless.

REY: I have to get back to Jakku.

MAZ: Han told me.
(reaches out, hold 
REY'S HAND) Dear child. I see your eyes. You already know the truth. Whomever you're waiting for on Jakku, they're never coming back. But... there's someone who still could.

REY: Luke.

MAZ: The belonging you seek is not behind you. It is ahead. I am no Jedi, but I know the Force. It moves through and surrounds every living thing. Close your eyes. Feel it.

(MORE) 

AZ: The light. It's always been there.
It will guide you. The saber. Take it.
Rey suddenly stands.

REY: I'm never touching that again. I don't want any part of this.
And Rey runs off, passing Maz.
Rey's mind is spinning -- she can't take it -- she turns and heads off, fast. BB-8 follows her. TIGHT ON MAZ, watching her go. Maz SIGHS, feeling for the young girl.

EXT. MAZ'S CASTLE - DAY

Rey exits the castle, needs to run, but doesn't know where.
Heads toward the woods.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Rey moves through the foliage, heart racing. Over this, we HEAR a RUMBLING -- intense, an OMEN of something horrible to come.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - ASSEMBLY AREA - DAY

A massive rally: a thousand STORMTROOPERS, TIE FIGHTERS, OFFICERS and VEHICLES. BRUTALIST STRUCTURES, mountainous SNOWY LANDSCAPE. Addressing them at a podium, flanked by RED FIRST ORDER BANNERS, is HUX. His voice ECHOES: 

GENERAL HUX: Today is the end of the Republic! The end of a regime that acquiesces to disorder! At this very moment, in a system far from here the New Republic LIES to the GALAXY while secretly supporting the treachery of the loathsome Resistance. This fierce machine which you have built, upon which we stand, will bring an end to the Senate! To their cherished fleet! All remaining systems will bow to the First Order! And will remember this... as the last day of the Republic! 

INT. STARKILLER BASE - CONTROL ROOM - DAY

ENGINEERS perform FINAL FIRING PROTOCOL. There's a sense of nervousness -- WILL THIS MASSIVE WEAPON ACTUALLY WORK? 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - ASSEMBLY AREA - DAY

GENERAL HUX

FIRE! And Hux TURNS to give the signal as we CUT BACK WIDE -- a ROAR OF BOOTS ON PAVEMENT as the thousand Stormtroopers TURN to face an endless snowy landscape. WHAT IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN?! 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

A view PAST THE RALLY. For a moment, nothing. Then, eerily 
SILENT, AN IMPOSSIBLE BLAST OF FIRE LIGHT -- LIKE AN ATOMIC

BOMB TEST TIMES A ZILLION -- BLASTS FROM MILES AWAY, INTO THE SKY! Seconds later, a TERRIBLE EXPLOSIVE ROAR! The Troopers -- everyone -- is nearly PUSHED BACK by the FORCE of it -- the magnitude! Many have to COVER THEIR EYES! For MILES around the FIREBEAM, ICE AND SNOW MELTS INSTANTLY! Runoff tunnels FLOODED with AN OCEAN OF FRESH WATER. AIRBORNE CREATURES by the thousands burst from trees and take flight.
Hux watches, his eyes WILD WITH POWER AND EVIL. From HIS eyes, CUT TO: 
INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE - DAY

TIGHT ON KYLO REN as he watches the Starkiller firing.

EXT. MAZ' CASTLE - DAY

Finn boards the Alien Freighter. The SOUND FROM THE SKY makes him turn back. He sees the PATH OF FIRE and his blood runs cold, his heart sinks.

EXT. REPUBLIC SYSTEM - NIGHT

At a massive distance we see PLANETS THE REPUBLIC CAPITAL

SYSTEM -- INCREASINGLY LIT, THEN POWERFULLY HIT BY THE VAST

FIREBLAST WHICH OBLITERATES IT ALL! 
EXT. REPUBLIC CITY - NIGHT

The galaxy CENTER OF GOVERNMENT at NIGHT. Impressive structures. Senators and dignitaries look in uncomprehending horror to the night sky. LIGHT GROWING -- FROM A GREAT DISTANCE a CIRCLE OF FIRE -- LIKE A SMALL SUN

APPEARING FROM NOWHERE AND GROWING CLOSE AND MASSIVE, TURNING NIGHT TO DAY! And in seconds THE FIRE BLOCKS OUT EVERYTHING

ELSE, AND THE ENTIRE PLANET OF HOSNIAN PRIME IS INCINERATED! 
EXT. MAZ'S CASTLE - DAY

A crowd of ALIENS files out from inside, all eyes on the FIRE IN THE SKY. Dozens of LANGUAGES exclaiming fear and horror. Find Han and Chewie moving out, looking up.

INN (O.S.) It was the Republic.
Han and Chewie turn as Finn arrives, moving quickly through the crowd. With dread: 
FINN: The First Order, they've done it.
Where's Rey? 
EXT. FOREST - DAY

Rey races through the forest and finally comes to a stop, overwhelmed and exhausted. At an emotional breaking point, she has no idea where to go, who to turn to. Then she HEARS: A BEEP -- turns to see BB-8, catching up with her.

REY: What are you doing? 
(HE BEEPS) You have to go back.
(he BEEPS again) 
REY: BB-8. No, you can't -- you have to go back, you're too important.
They'll help you.
Then, ANOTHER SOUND -- LOUDER NOW -- they LOOK UP AGAIN: in front of the system attack, A FLEET OF FIRST ORDER SHIPS ROAR OVERHEAD, TOWARD THE CASTLE! Rey's heart sinks: HER

FRIENDS ARE IN DANGER! 
INT. MAZ'S CASTLE - BASEMENT CORRIDOR - DAY

Maz leads Han, Finn and Chewie down the hall, fast: 

MAZ: I've had this for ages...

MAZ'S CASTLE - TREASURE ROOM - DAY: Maz opens the box -- holds out the lightsaber to Finn: 

MAZ: Kept it locked away.

HAN: Where'd you get that? 

MAZ: A good question for another time.

(TO FINN) Take it! Find your friend! Finn grabs it as the room is SHAKEN by an above ground attack.

MAZ: Those beasts! They're here! 
EXT. FOREST - DAY

Rey and BB-8 race fast back toward the castle -- EXPLOSION SOUNDS can be HEARD from the direction they're headed! 
EXT. FOREST - DAY

Rey races through the trees -- sees Maz' castle -- BEING DESTROYED BY FIRST ORDER SHIPS! Aliens RUNNING, GETTING OBLITERATED by SCREAMING TIE FIGHTERS! Other TIE FIGHTERS and TRANSPORTERS LAND, STORMTROOPERS in attack.
Just then, filtered RADIO CALLS get Rey's attention: nearby STORMTROOPERS have spotted her, AND FIRE! 

STORMTROOPER: FN-417, hold position! Rey takes cover, grabs her BLASTER -- but IT WON'T FIRE! She panics, then realizes: 

REY: Safety! SHE SWITCHES OFF THE SAFETY and FIRES BACK! HITS TWO TROOPERS and retreats, calls to BB-8: BB-8 follows Rey AWAY FROM THE CASTLE, firing back at more chasing Troopers! 
EXT. MAZ' CASTLE RUINS - DAY

Kylo Ren moves through the DEBRIS. A Stormtrooper approaches: 

STORMTROOPER: Sir, the droid was spotted heading west, with a girl.
Kylo Ren LOOKS BACK SHARPLY, in Rey's direction -- 
EXT. FOREST - DAY

Rey and BB-8 move swiftly, terrified -- she stops them: 

REY: You have to keep going, stay out of sight, I'll try to fight 'em off.
(BB-8 BEEPS; bravely through her fear) I hope so, too.
BB-8 BEEPS and heads off -- Rey RUNS and TAKES COVER behind a massive, mossy tree. TIGHT on her TERRIFIED FACE -- 
EXT. CASTLE DEBRIS - DAY

Han, Chewie, Finn and Maz, exhausted, CLIMB UP, peek through debris.

HAN: Come on, Chewie! Maz turns to Finn: 

MAZ: Rey and BB-8, they need you. Now go.

FINN: I need a weapon.
Maz grabs his wrist -- holds up his hand -- THE SABER.

MAZ: You have one! He looks at her questioningly -- he's supposed to use the lightsaber?! He TURNS IT ON.
HAN AND CHEWIE RUN, TAKE COVER from BLASTS, FIRING BACK at Stormtroopers, taking some out! 

HAN: Hey, can I try that? Han borrows Chewbacca's bowcaster, fires on Stormtroopers and sends them flying.

HAN: 
(TO CHEWBACCA) I like this thing.
FINN SURPRISES A STORMTROOPER WITH THE LIGHTSABER, then another! Untrained, he's athletic, brave, impressive. One Stormtrooper has a MACE -- 

STORMTROOPER: Traitor! FINN and the TROOPER WITH THE MACE battle. The Mace Trooper KNOCKS FINN DOWN! The Stormtrooper is about to end him, when THE STORMTROOPER IS SHOT AND FALLS! Wide-eyed Finn sees Han run over, having fired the blast! Han helps him up.

HAN: You okay, Big deal? 

FINN: Thanks! But TEN STORMTROOPERS come over a RISE, BLASTERS AIMED.

STORMTROOPER: Don't move! TK-338, we have targets in custody! 

an's MIND RACES as a SQUAD OF TROOPERS appears behind them.
Finn, Han and Chewie are MARCHED by Stormtroopers back toward a transport, hands on their heads.
But then -- A FAMILIAR ROAR RIPPING ACROSS THE LAKE -- Han turns -- they all do: coming toward them across the water, X- 
WINGS AND RESISTANCE SPACECRAFT APPEAR, BEGIN FIRING AT THE

FIRST ORDER SHIPS! 
PUSH IN ON HAN, HOPE SURGING -- CHEWIE TALKS.

STORMTROOPER: We have incoming at two-eight-point- six! Move! Dispatch! Move! Scramble all squads! Repeat, scramble all squads! Anti-air cover en route to our position! 

HAN: It's the Resistance.
One X-WING in particular -- MARKED IN BLACK -- SWOOPS DOWN and takes out the parked TIE FIGHTERS and Troopers! 
INT. POE'S X-WING - DAY

It's Poe Dameron at the stick of his X-wing.

POE: Go straight ahead and don't let these dogs scare you! 
JESS (V.O.) Copy that! 
SNAP (V.O.) We're with you, Poe! The Stormtroopers around Finn, Han and Chewie SCATTER, TOSSED in EXPLOSIONS! The LIGHTSABER LANDS AGAIN -- FINN PICKS IT

UP.

HAN: Quick! Chewie picks up his Bowcaster, Han takes the blaster. Shoots a Trooper.

FINN: Woohoo! YEAH! That's one helluva pilot! 
INT. POE'S X-WING - DAY

POE

WOOHOO! 
EXT. FOREST - DAY

In the darkened woods, Rey, terrified, keeps her blaster aimed. Her eyes dart around for her pursuer.
And then: THE UNIQUE SOUND OF KYLO REN'S RASPING LIGHTSABER COMING TO LIFE -- A SOUND she's HEARD BEFORE in the FORCEBACK.
Rey's heart skips a beat: she's even more scared now.
Kylo Ren appears from behind a tree -- Rey FIRES again and again -- Kylo Ren moves toward her, USING HIS LIGHTSABER TO

DEFLECT EVERY BLAST.
She FIRES ferociously, but Kylo Ren keeps coming! His hand rises -- Rey suddenly STOPS -- GASPS -- UNABLE TO MOVE.

KYLO REN: The girl I've heard so much about.
He walks AROUND HER, slowly, she won't let herself cry.

KYLO REN: The droid.
He comes around to see her face. After a scary beat he WHIPS

HIS SABER UP TO HER EYES, ILLUMINATING HER FACE.

KYLO REN: Where is it? 
WIDE SHOT: THE EPIC BATTLE BETWEEN RESISTANCE AND FIRST

ORDER TROOPS, REFLECTED IN THE STILL LAKE.

STORMTROOPER: Request air support! 
EXT. FOREST - DAY

Kylo Ren TURNS OFF HIS SABER, reaches up... and REACHES TOWARDS REY'S FACE. She can't move, strains in agony. After a beat, surprised by what he finds, he removes his hand.
She is relieved but still afraid.

KYLO REN: The map. You've seen it.
Rey is horrified. He TOUCHES HER FACE again: the pain, tears stream. Kylo Ren, taking more from her mind...
She stares at him, TERRIFIED, straining in agony -- Kylo Ren, mid-interrogation, TURNS TOWARD THE SOUND OF THE EXPLOSIONS. Stormtroopers APPROACH through the woods.

STORMTROOPER: Sir, Resistance fighters! We need more troops.
Kylo Ren TURNS BACK TO Rey, his hand still on her face.

KYLO REN: Pull the division out. Forget the droid. We have what we need.
A GESTURE from Kylo Ren and REY LOSES CONSCIOUSNESS, FALLS

FROM FRAME! 
EXT. CASTLE DEBRIS - DAY

The BLACK-MARKED X-WING SWOOPS DOWN again, FIRING, EXPLODING another TIE Fighter! On the ground: 

STORMTROOPER: Pull back the tree line! Han and Chewie dodge debris, FIRING and TAKING OUT TROOPERS.
FINN takes out 2 TROOPERS with the blaster, then, out of breath, turns to see: Kylo Ren in the forest, CARRYING REY IN HIS ARMS, INTO HIS SHUTTLE! Finn's heart SHATTERS -- Han stops -- turns -- sees Kylo Ren entering his shuttle.
Han is ROCKED.

FINN

NO!! REY!!! Heroically, Finn runs toward the shuttle through LASER BLASTS AND EXPLOSIONS, but the shuttle TAKES OFF -- Finn irrationally 
CHASES IT, SCREAMS DESPERATELY: 
FINN: No, no, no, no... REY!! In crazed frustration, Finn stops running, watches the receding First Order ships, Rey their captive.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

BB-8 moves fast, then stops and looks up as the First Order ships RETREAT, OFF PLANET. A considered beat, and BB-8 heads 
BACK FOR THE CASTLE.

EXT. MAZ'S CASTLE RUINS - DAY

Post battle. Finn runs to Han: 

FINN: He took her! Did you see that? He took her. She's gone! 
HAN

(WALKS PAST) Yeah, yeah, I know...
And he and Chewie head off.

EXT. MAZ'S CASTLE RUINS - DAY

Han moves toward a RESISTANCE TRANSPORT landing in the debris.
BB-8 rolls up beside him, in wait for the transport.
ON HAN'S FACE, knowing exactly what's about to happen.
Finally, the transport door opens.
And standing there is LEIA.
She sees Han and is stunned. A silent beat, husband and wife reunited for the first time in years. In the smoke and embers, no one says a word.
Then C-3PO walks out from the transport, into the field: 

C-3PO: Goodness! Han Solo! It is I, See- Threepio! (sees Han, stops) You probably don't recognize me because of the red arm.
(sees Leia, 
INCREASINGLY AWKWARD) Look who it is! Did you see who? Oh. Excuse me, Prin-- uh, General.
Sorry. Come along, BB-8. Quickly.

(BB-8 BEEPS) Yes, I must get my proper arm reinstalled.
He hurries off. Finally, alone again.

HAN: You changed your hair.

LEIA: Same jacket.

HAN: No, new jacket.
Chewie glad to see Leia, greets her with a hug. Chewie MOANS a few words, looks at Han then boards the ship.
It is complicated and loving and painful. Han says, quietly: 
HAN: ... I saw him. Leia, I saw our son.
He was here.
Leia hears this.
Maz watches through the smoke.

EXT. SPACE - DAY

The FALCON and surviving X-WINGS ROAR past camera toward a 
PLANET WITH GREEN FLORA AND A RING OF ASTEROIDS.

EXT. D'QAR - DAY

The SHIPS DESCENDING among grassy mounds and sunken structures.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

LARGE GRASS MOUNDS cover HANGARS, beneath the odd, giant trees. BOOM DOWN as RESISTANCE GROUND CREW direct an X-WING to a LANDING. In the FOREGROUND, another X-wing canopy OPENS, a PILOT climbs out. PAN TO REVEAL the landed Millennium Falcon. Finn runs down the ramp, UP TO CAMERA, desperate, searching.
Then BB-8 SPEEDS RIGHT PAST HIM, almost knocking him down -- Finn watches as BB-8 rolls over to the PILOT GETTING OUT OF THE BLACK-MARKED X-WING. The Pilot's helmet comes off.

IT IS POE! Finn can't believe what he's seeing. And Poe, kneeling in WARM REUNION with BB-8, listens and reacts to something the droid tells him. Poe looks up and sees Finn -- and he can't believe it either! Poe smiles, points at Finn. From a distance, Finn gestures in sheer amazement that Poe is alive.

FINN: Poe. Poe Dameron.
They move to each other -- and embrace.

FINN: You're alive! 

POE: So are you! 

FINN: What happened to you? 

POE: What happened? I got thrown from the crash, woke up at night -- no you, no ship, nothing-- BB-8 BEEPS -- Poe listens, turns to Finn.

POE: BB-8 says that you saved him.

FINN: No, no, no. It wasn't just me.

POE: You completed my mission, Finn.
That's my jacket? 

FINN: Oh here.

POE: No, no, no. Keep it. It suits you.
You're a good man, Finn.

FINN: Poe -- I need your help.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

MOVE FAST with Finn and Poe. Finn takes in this makeshift command center, buried deep among vines and roots. They arrive at Leia, who stands with a group of Resistance Officers, including ADMIRALS ACKBAR and STATURA: 

POE: General Organa. Sorry to interrupt, this is Finn, he needs to talk to 
YOU -- 

LEIA: (takes Finn's hand) And I need to talk to him. That was incredibly brave, what you did.
Renouncing the First Order, saving this man's life -- 

FINN: (surprised she knows) Thank you, ma'am -- but a friend of mine was taken prisoner-- 

LEIA: Han told me about the girl, I'm sorry.
Finn is startled -- Poe jumps in: 

POE: Finn's familiar with the weapon that destroyed the Hosnian system. He worked on the base.

LEIA: We're desperate for anything you can tell us.

FINN: That's where my friend was taken -- I've got to get there, fast.

LEIA: And I will do everything I can to help, but first you must tell us all you know.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

Chewbacca sits on a bed in the med bay. DR. KALONIA uses a device to help heal his shoulder. Chewie TALKS.

DR. KALONIA

(CHEWIE TALKS) That sounds very scary.

(CHEWIE TALKS) You must be so brave.
Chewie agrees.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

C-3PO takes the DATA DEVICE from BB-8 and inserts it into a BASE COMPUTER. THE PROJECTED MAP APPEARS in HOLOGRAM. Leia enters, studying it, dispirited. PAN as she moves, REVEALING HAN. C-3PO is here and some others.

C-3PO: General, I regret to inform you, but this map recovered from BB-8 is only partially complete. And even worse, it matches no charted system on record. We simply do not have enough information to locate Master Luke.

LEIA: I can't believe I was so foolish to think that I could just find Luke and bring him home.

HAN: Leia...

LEIA: Don't do that.

HAN: Do what? She heads off.

LEIA: Anything.
Flummoxed, Han follows looking at C-3PO.

C-3PO: Princesses.
Han follows Leia across the base floor: 

HAN: I'm trying to be helpful! 

LEIA: When did that ever help? And don't say the Death Star.

HAN

(SIGHS) 
INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

LOW WITH BB-8 as he rolls over and finds, under a dark and dusty tarp in a corner, R2-D2. BB-8 BEEPS at R2, pulls off the tarp and tries to start a conversation. But R2 DOESN'T RESPOND AT ALL. BB-8 tries again. Nothing. BB-8 NUDGES: R2. Nothing. Then: 
C-3PO (O.S.) BB-8. You're wasting your time.
BB-8 looks up at C-3PO, who stands there. C-3PO SIGHS.

C-3PO: It is very doubtful that R2 would have the rest of the map in his backup data.

(BB-8 BEEPS) I am afraid not. R2-D2 has been in low power mode ever since Master Luke went away. Sadly, he may never be his old self again.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

Leia hears the change in Han's voice and softens. She turns.

HAN: Listen to me, will you? I know every time you... every time you look at me, you're reminded of him.

LEIA: You think I want to forget him? I want him back! Han looks at her with sympathy.

HAN: There was nothing we could've done.
(hard for him to say) There was too much Vader in him.

LEIA: That's why I wanted him to train with Luke. I just never should have sent him away. That's when I lost him. That's when I lost you both.

HAN: We both had to deal with it in our own way. I went back to the only thing I was ever good at.

LEIA: We both did.

HAN: We lost our son, forever.

LEIA: No.

(LONG BEAT) It was Snoke.
Han takes this in.

LEIA: He seduced our son to the dark side.
But we can still save him. Me.
You.

HAN: If Luke couldn't reach him, how could 
I? 

LEIA: Luke is a Jedi... you're his father.
There's still light in him. I know it.

GENERAL STATURA: General, the reconnaissance report on the enemy base is coming.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - HOLDING CELL - DAY

Rey wakes, disoriented. She is in an angled, upright restraining rig. Looks over, startled to see Kylo Ren, mask in place, standing there.

REY: Where am I? 
KYLO REN

(LONG BEAT) You're my guest.

REY: Where are the others? 

KYLO REN: You mean the murderers, traitors and thieves you call friends? (Rey stares at him) You'll be relieved to hear that I have no idea.

KYLO REN: You still want to kill me.

REY: That happens when you're being hunted by a creature in a mask.
Kylo Ren stops, considers her... then reaches up, unlatches and REMOVES HIS MASK. Rey reacts, stunned. It takes a moment before she regains her own mask of defiance.

KYLO REN: Tell me about the droid.

REY: (a nervous beat) He's a BB unit with a selenium drive and a thermal hyperscan vindicator -- 

KYLO REN: He's carrying a section of a navigational chart. We have the rest, recovered from archives of the Empire. We need the last piece.
And somehow, you convinced the droid to show it to you. You. A scavenger -- Rey reacts -- afraid -- how does he know? 
KYLO REN: You know I can take whatever I want.
Trepidation flashes across Rey's eyes. Kylo Ren moves closer, his hand rising toward her. She recoils, but has nowhere to go. Kylo Ren nearly TOUCHES HER FACE...
THEY'RE BOTH SURPRISED: they react to a feeling that passes between them -- AN ENERGY THEY RECOGNIZE IN EACH OTHER.
And then it's gone. Adversaries again. Rey can't move, quietly strains in agony, trying to resist Ren's probing.

KYLO REN: ... You're so lonely... so afraid to leave...
(then, slight smile) At night, desperate to sleep... you imagine an ocean. I see it -- I see the island...
Tears stream down her face as she resists. She tries to break free, but can't budge.

KYLO REN: And Han Solo. You feel like he's the father you never had. He would've disappointed you.

REY: -- Get out of my head -- But this just makes Kylo lean closer.

KYLO REN: I know you've seen the map. It's in there... and now you'll give it to me. Don't be afraid. I feel it too.
Where her strength comes from, she doesn't know, but: 

REY: I'm not giving you anything.

KYLO REN: We'll see.
He peers into her eyes intensely. She meets his gaze -- 
DESPITE THE PAIN SHE IS STRONG.
On Ren's face as HIS CONFIDENCE BEGINS TO MELT AWAY. He has slammed up against a barrier in her mind. He looks less certain by the moment as Rey seems to GROW IN STRENGTH. The FEROCITY of confrontation builds until it hits critical mass 
AND REY DOES THE UNTHINKABLE! SHE ENTERS HIS HEAD, AMAZED

AT WHAT SHE IS SEEING! 

REY: ... You... you're afraid... that you will never be as strong as... Darth Vader! KYLO REN SUDDENLY WITHDRAWS HIS HAND, as if her face were FIRE HOT. TAKES A STEP BACK, CONFUSED, RATTLED. Rey's body is released, she breathes deeply, her powerful eyes still on Kylo Ren, who starts to leave.
And we PRELAP: 
SNOKE (V.O.) This scavenger, resisted you? 
INT. STARKILLER PLANET - ASSEMBLY ROOM - NIGHT

Kylo Ren, mask off, stands before Snoke.

KYLO REN: She's strong with the Force, untrained but, stronger than she knows.
And while Ren's mind no doubt goes to Luke: 

SNOKE: And the droid? 

ENERAL HUX (O.S.) Ren believed it was no longer valuable to us.
Ren turns back -- Hux enters the large space, moves to the platform beside Ren.

GENERAL HUX: That the girl was all we needed. As a result, the droid has most likely been returned to the hands of the enemy. They may have the map already.
Snoke is visibly furious.

SNOKE: Then the Resistance must be destroyed before they get to Skywalker.

GENERAL HUX: We have their location. We tracked their reconnaissance ship to the Ileenium system.

SNOKE: Good. Then we will crush them once and for all. Prepare the weapon.
Kylo Ren is stunned by the moment -- that isn't what he meant at all -- 

KYLO REN: Supreme Leader. I can get the map from the girl. I just need your guidance.

SNOKE: If what you say about this girl is true, bring her to me.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - HOLDING CELL - DAY

SLOW PUSH IN ON REY, shackled, mind still racing over what's happened between her and Kylo Ren. She is flooded with emotions, feeling her potential, her strength, that in this moment of being restrained, perhaps anything is possible.
She turns to the Stormtrooper Guard. Studies him for an intense beat. Then says: 

REY: You will remove these restraints.
And leave this cell, with the door open.
The Stormtrooper Guard looks at her. A beat.

ROOPER GUARD: What did you say? Rey's eyes stay trained on him. She shifts in her seat, her confidence wavering, but she repeats, with authority: 

REY: You will remove these restraints.
And leave this cell, with the door open.
The Stormtrooper Guard, rifle aimed, MOVES FOR HER.
Rey's heart pounds -- is she about to be killed, freed, or laughed at? The tension unbearable when the Guard says: 
TROOPER GUARD: I'll tighten those restraints, scavenger scum! 
INT. STARKILLER BASE - CORRIDOR 1 - DAY

LOW ANGLE: Kylo Ren, masked, rounds a corner, PASSES US.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - HOLDING CELL - DAY

Rey stares intently at the trooper. Calms herself. And tries again.

REY: You will remove these restraints.
And leave this cell, with the door open.

TROOPER GUARD: I will remove these restraints. And leave this cell, with the door open.
He reaches down and UNLATCHES THE RESTRAINTS. HE THEN TURNS AND STARTS TO HEAD OUT, her back to him as he exits. SHE IS IN SHOCK. Then tries, quickly: 

REY: And you will drop your weapon.

TROOPER GUARD: And I'll drop my weapon.
The Trooper Guard DROPS HIS WEAPON without turning back -- Rey HEARS the gun fall. She's incredulous. The guard has 
LEFT THE CELL, ITS DOOR OPEN.
REY, in ABSOLUTE DISBELIEF, MOVES QUICKLY OUT OF FRAME! 
INT. STARKILLER BASE - HOLDING CELL - DAY

Kylo Ren enters the cell -- we PUSH IN ON HIM as he takes in the empty cell -- AND IMMEDIATELY UNDERSTANDS WHAT HAS

HAPPENED.

YLO REN

NO! Enraged, he RIPS OUT HIS SABER and -- 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - CORRIDOR 1 - DAY

WIDE ANGLE, empty corridor, toward the cell: we only HEAR the horrible SOUNDS. DESTRUCTION. YELLING. A few pieces of red hot DEBRIS BOUNCES into the corridor.
Two STORMTROOPERS, crossing at the far end of the hall, STOP TO WATCH this display of pure FURY. They retreat, and fast.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Workers at their controls. Vast snowy landscape seen outside.
Their GAUGES RISE -- THE WEAPON CHARGING SLOWLY -- 

GENERAL HUX: Begin charging the weapon! 

STARKILLER TECHNICIAN: Yes, sir. Weapon charging.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE PLANET - DAY

A vast view of the planet -- a MASSIVE SOLARVAC ARRAY surrounds a port TEN MILES IN DIAMETER.
MILLIONS OF PANELS turn on the ARRAY -- a wave of BRILLIANT REFLECTIONS. Suddenly, like a planetary-scale TESLA COIL LINE OF ENERGY, THE POWER OF THE SUN begins to TRAVEL DOWN to the Starkiller Base planet.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

Finn, now a member of the inner circle of the Resistance, is huddled with the group around the MAP TABLE, which displays a WIREFRAME HOLOGRAM of a ROLLING VIEW OF THE SURFACE OF STARKILLER BASE. With Finn are Han, Leia, Poe, C-3PO, Statura, Ackbar, Brance, SNAP, MAJOR EMATT (60), NIEN NUNB, and others. An urgent, messy strategy session -- 

POE: The scan data from Snap's reconnaissance flight confirms Finn's report.

SNAP: They've somehow created a hyper lightspeed weapon built within the planet itself.

BRANCE: A laser cannon? 

SNAP: We're not sure how to describe a weapon of this scale.

MAJOR EMATT

(HORRIBLE MEMORIES) It's another Death Star.

POE: I wish that were the case, Major.
Poe hits a control. A WIREFRAME OF THE DEATH STAR APPEARS.

POE: This was the Death Star.
Poe hits another control -- the Death Star SHRINKS -- AND SHRINKS AND SHRINKS, as the SURFACE AREA OF THE STARKILLER

BASE IS DRAWN INTO A LARGER IMAGE, REVEALING THE ENTIRE BASE PLANET. The Death Star is a minuscule SATELLITE in comparison.

POE: This is Starkiller Base.
This is news to many here, and they're stunned.

HAN: So it's big.

ADMIRAL ACKBAR: How is it possible to power a weapon of this size? 

FINN: It uses the power of the sun. As the weapon is charged, the sun is drained until it disappears.
An OFFICER runs up, hands Leia a DATACARD.

LEIA: (eyes on datacard) The First Order: they're charging the weapon again, now.
(then, heart sinking) Our system is the next target.

C-3PO: Oh my. Without the Republic fleet, we're doomed.
They all react to this horrible news.

HAN: Okay, how do we blow it up? (all eyes on him) There's always a way to do that.

LEIA: Han's right.
Han is surprised.

ADMIRAL STATURA: (at first hesitant) In order for that amount of power to be contained, that base would need some kind of thermal oscillator...

FINN: There is one.
All eyes on Finn as he moves around the hologram to a location on the Starkiller Base -- it is ZOOMED IN: A GIANT BLACK

HEXAGONAL STRUCTURE.

FINN: Precinct 47. Here.

ADMIRAL STATURA

(HYPOTHESIZING) If we can destroy that oscillator, it might de-stabilize the core and cripple the weapon.

MAJOR EMATT: ... Maybe the planet.
Poe then tries to bolster spirits, looking at the BIG HEXAGONAL STRUCTURE: the Oscillator.

POE: We'll go in there and we'll hit that oscillator with everything we got.

ADMIRAL ACKBAR: They have defensive shields that our ships cannot penetrate.

HAN: We disable the shields.

(TO FINN) Kid, you worked there, what do you got? 

FINN: (beat, then:) I can do it.

HAN: I like this guy.

FINN: I can disable the shields. But I have to be there, on the planet-- 

HAN: We'll get you there.

LEIA: Han, how? 

HAN: If I told you, you wouldn't like it.

POE: So we disable the shields, take out the oscillator and we blow up their big gun. All right. Let's go! And everyone splits.

EXT. HANGARS, RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

SERIES OF SHOTS: THE RESISTANCE FLEET PREPARES FOR ITS MISSION. Pilots inspect crafts, including Snap, Nien Nunb, and Poe at his black-marked X-wing. Mechanics make adjustments as Crews fuel the jets. Ground controllers move ships into takeoff formation. Pilots prep their ships, including BB-8, who is PULLED INTO Poe's black X-wing.
Finn approaches Poe wearing the jacket.
Poe slaps Finn's shoulder as he heads off. Finn watches Poe, despite it all, a little laugh. Over this: 
EXT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

Chewie and Finn follow Han's orders as they prepare the Falcon for one more daring run, maybe its last: 

HAN: Chewie, check that donal capitator.
Come on. Let's go. -- Finn, be careful with those - they're explosives.

FINN: Now you tell me? 

LEIA: No matter how much we fought, I've always hated watching you leave.
Han looks over, there's Leia.

HAN: That's what I did it. So you'd miss me.
She laughs, moves up close to him.

LEIA: I did miss you.
He looks at her, says sweetly, out of the blue: 

HAN: It wasn't all bad, was it? Huh? Some of it was...good.

LEIA: ... Pretty good.

HAN: Some things never change.

LEIA

(SMILES) True. You still drive me crazy.
Han places his hands on her shoulders. It could be thirty years ago.
They both know there's a good chance he won't make it back.
They pull each other tight, holding for dear life. Quietly, 
LONGINGLY: 
LEIA: If you see our son again, bring him home.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

STORMTROOPER: Sir, sensors triggered in hangar 718. We're searching the area.

KYLO REN: She's just beginning to test her powers. The longer it takes to find her, the more dangerous she becomes.
Kylo exits.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - ATRIUM AREA - DAY

TIGHT ON REY'S FACE as she peers nervously around a corner.
Rey runs down a long, glossy hall, taking cover in an alcove, the Trooper Guard's rifle HELD TIGHT.

EXT. LIGHTSPEED SPACE - DAY

The Falcon SCREAMS PAST -- 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Flying at LIGHTSPEED, Finn, with Han and Chewie.

FINN: How are we getting in? 

HAN: Their shields have a fractional refresh rate. Keeps anything traveling slower than lightspeed from getting through.
Finn is suddenly filled with dread.

FINN: We're gonna make our landing approach at lightspeed?! Chewie, thinking it's crazy too, says: HELL YES WE ARE! 

HAN: Alright, Chewie, get ready.
Chewie GROANS: he's ready. Han studies the PANEL INDICATORS.

HAN: And Now! Chewie and Han hit switches -- 

EXT. LIGHTSPEED SPACE/STARKILLER BASE - DAY

The Falcon's ENVIRONMENT SHIFTS INSTANTLY FROM LIGHTSPEED TO PLANET ATMOSPHERE -- it's suddenly FLYING 100 FEET ABOVE THE

SNOWY, ROCKY GROUND, HEADED FOR A THICK FOREST! 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

CHEWIE GROANS: 
HAN

I AM PULLING UP!!! 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

But the Falcon has no time -- it PLOWS through the trees! It then RISES -- 
INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

ALARMS BLARE as the ship SLAMS THROUGH BRANCHES, SHOOTS TOWARD SKY! Han does his best to steer -- Chewie GROANS -- in the madness Han YELLS: 

HAN: I get any higher, they'll see us! And the ship DIVES again, back into the trees! 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - CLEARING - DAY

A quiet CLEARING on the forest TREELINE. Suddenly the MILLENNIUM FALCON HURTLES OUT OF THE FOREST! From an eruption of BRANCHES and PINE, the ship DIVES -- SLAMS INTO THE SNOW! It DIGS THROUGH A THOUSAND YARDS OF WHITE until it finally comes to a canted stop, half buried in the snow! 
INT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

OFFICER: Sir, she was not found in hangar 718 but all troops are on alert.

KYLO REN: Put every hangar on lock-down. She's going to try to steal a ship to-- Suddenly, Kylo senses something. Something familiar.

KYLO REN: Han Solo...

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

MASSIVE WIDE SHOT of an EPIC SNOWSCAPE. Han, Finn and Chewie cross the terrain. WALKERS appears on the horizon. Han, Finn and Chewie take cover behind a base structure. Chewie carries a BLACK DUFFEL of EXPLOSIVES.

FINN: The flooding tunnels are over that ridge. We'll get in that way.

HAN: What was your job when you were based here? 

FINN: Sanitation.

HAN: Sanitation? Then how do you know how to disable the shields? 

FINN: I don't. I'm just here to get Rey.

HAN: People are counting on us! The galaxy is counting on us--! 

FINN: Solo, we'll figure it out! We'll use the Force! 

HAN: That's not how the Force works--! 

HAN: Oh really, you're cold? 

FINN: Come on! They follow Finn on the snowy hike. On the horizon, THE

LASER SIPHON SHOOTING INTO THE SKY, SLOWLY SUCKING THE SUN

DRY.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Technicians at work, the SUN SUCKING seen in the window behind him.

GENERAL HUX: Report.

FIRST ORDER OFFICER: Weapon charged in fifteen minutes, sir.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - CORRIDOR 4 - DAY

A STORMTROOPER waits to board a Transport Compartment. The door WHOOSHES open -- HAN, FINN and CHEWIE are there! 
STORMTROOPER FN-9330 Hey! He fumbles for his blaster but Chewie shoots first. WIDE ANGLE of the corridor as the Trooper flies back, dead.
Chewie drags him out of sight. Han and Finn peer around a corner, wary.

HAN: The longer we're here, less luck we're going to have. The shields? 

FINN: I have an idea about that.
Han and Chewie follow Finn.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - CORRIDOR - DAY

Captain Phasma heads down a corridor, distant Stormtroopers.
Suddenly Phasma is T-BONED HARD AND FAST -- SHOVED OUT OF

FRAME BY CHEWIE! And now we're in a NARROW CROSS-CORRIDOR, CHEWIE WITH HIS

ARMS AROUND PHASMA, FORCED TO FACE FINN, WHO HOLDS HIS BLASTER ON HIS FORMER CAPTAIN. Han stands behind Finn.

FINN: Remember me? 

APTAIN PHASMA

FN-2187.

FINN: Not anymore. The name's Finn, and I'm in charge. I'm in charge now, Phasma. I'm in charge.

HAN: Bring it down. Bring it down.

FINN: Follow me.
Finn SMILES as we CUT TO: 
INT. STARKILLER BASE - ATRIUM AREA - DAY

TIGHT ON REY'S FACE as she peers nervously around a corner.
Rey runs down a long, glossy hall, taking cover in an alcove, the Trooper Guard's rifle HELD TIGHT.
From this alcove, she can see down another LONG, PERPENDICULAR WALKWAY -- on one side, a STONE AND STEEL WALL. On the other side, a VAST ATRIUM, with a railing-free DROP OFF, the white pill-light design descending HUNDREDS OF FEET.
At the end of this walkway is an OPEN HANGAR DOOR, revealing HUNDREDS OF TIE FIGHTERS parked outside.
TIGHT on Rey's face as her plan is clear. But the problem: between her and the ship she wants to steal, is a GROUP OF STORMTROOPERS. Guards, in conversation.
As she tries to think about what to do next, we see, FAR BEHIND HER in the perpendicular hall, ANOTHER GROUP OF STORM- and SNOWTROOPERS headed her way! Rey's mind races -- another peek out and she RUNS FAST, across the walkway, and CLIMBS DOWN -- her fingertips disappearing over the edge just as the Troopers approach and continue.
WIDE SHOT as Rey holds on carefully as the guards walk off, not seeing her over the edge, a death drop below her.
But then she SEES SOMETHING and has a brainstorm. She strenuously cross-climbs to an invisible SERVICE HATCH, which She opens, and climbs INSIDE THE WALL, closing the hatch behind her.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - INSIDE THE WALLS - DAY

A REMARKABLE IMAGE, inside the inner workings of the base.
Tiny by comparison, Rey climbs amid the incredible infrastructure, a drop to infinity beneath her. She is between the LIGHT SOURCE and the WHITE PILL SHAPES, as she makes her way ACROSS.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - ATRIUM AREA - DAY

WIDE SHOT of the Stormtrooper GUARDS, above the drop off into the atrium. What they cannot see is a SHADOWED SILHOUETTE OF REY against the ENDLESS WHITE PILL LIGHTS as she climbs across the space, beneath them, toward her exit! 
INT. STARKILLER BASE - CONTROL ACCESS POINT - DAY

CLOSE AS PHASMA SITS INTO FRAME in front of a WORKSTATION -- Finn, Han and Chewie, blasters aimed. Phasma reluctantly works controls on the workstation.

FINN: You want me to blast that bucket off your head? Lower the shields.

CAPTAIN PHASMA: You're making a big mistake.

FINN: Do it.
Chewie MOAN/TALKS. Phasma hits a few more buttons -- the controls BEEP-CLICK. "SHIELDS DISABLE INITIATE". Eyes on 
THE WORKSTATION: 
FINN: Solo, if this works, we're not going to have a lot of time to find Rey.

HAN: Don't worry kid, we won't leave here without her.
The controls BEEP-CLICK. "SHIELDS DISABLED".

CAPTAIN PHASMA: (to Finn, cruel) You can't be so stupid as to think this will be easy. My troops will storm this block and kill you all.

FINN: I disagree. What do we do with her? 

HAN: Is there a garbage chute? Trash compactor? 

FINN: Yeah, there is...

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

An ALERT: OFFICERS at their consoles, OVERLAPPING, urgent.

OFFICER: General, their shields are down! 

C-3PO: Thank the Maker! 

LEIA: Han did it! Send them in! 

ADMIRAL STATURA: Give Poe full authorization to attack.

REAR ADMIRAL

GULCH: Black Leader, go to sub-lights. On your call.

INT. X-WING - DAY

At LIGHTSPEED, Poe pilots: 

POE: Roger, base -- red squad, blue squad, take my lead.

INT. X-WING - DAY

Nien Nunb pilots, acknowledges order in alien language.

INT. X-WING - DAY

Another pilot, ZOLO ZIFF.

YOLO ZIFF: Dropping out of lightspeed.

EXT. SPACE/STARKILLER BASE - DAY

With CONCUSSIVE BLASTS, the X-WINGS APPEAR and ROAR PAST CAMERA toward the Starkiller Base planet! 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - CLEARING - DAY

The CRASHED FALCON, two parked TIE FIGHTERS and a TROOP TRANSPORT VEHICLE beside it.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - CLEARING - DAY

At a distance, the X-WINGS DROP FROM THE SKY, TOWARD THE

HEXAGONAL OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE IN THE DISTANCE! 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - ABOVE OSCILLATOR - DAY

The squad of X-wings DIVE BOMBS the Oscillator, the Black Falcon leads. INTERCUT BETWEEN THIS AND VARIOUS X-WINGS.

INT. X-WING - DAY

POE PILOTS: 

POE: Almost in range! Hit the target dead center, as many runs as we can get! 
INT. X-WING - DAY

Snap pilots.

SNAP: Approaching target.

INT. X-WING - DAY

Nien Nunb acknowledges.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - CONTROL ROOM - DAY

LARGE EXPLOSIONS atop the DISTANT OSCILLATOR, seen through the large windows! ALARMS BLARE in here -- we PULL BACK as Hux moves quickly to see the damage, he turns sharply to a First Order Officer: 

GENERAL HUX: Dispatch all squadrons...

COLONEL DATOO: Yes, General.

INT. X-WING - DAY

POE: Let's light it up! 
DIVE BOMBING THE OSCILLATOR, HITTING IT DEAD CENTER IN QUICK

SUCCESSION! 
INT. X-WING - DAY

LT. BASTIAN: Direct hit! 

ELLO ASTY: But no damage! Jess reacts.

POE: Yeah, we gotta keep hitting it! Another bombing run! Remember, when that sun is gone, that weapon will be ready to fire! But as long as there's light, we got a chance.

INT. X-WING - DAY

A BEEPING from BB-8, riding in the back of his X-wing, and Poe looks out -- can't believe what he's seeing: DOZENS OF

TIE FIGHTERS! 

POE: Guys, we got a lot of company! 
INT. STARKILLER BASE - JUNCTION AREA - DAY

Finn, Han and Chewie take cover, Chewie pulling some EXPLOSIVES out of the duffel. Blast doors nearby.

FINN: We'll use the charges to blow that blast door. I'll go in and draw fire, but I'm gonna need cover.

HAN: You sure you're up for this? 

FINN: Hell no -- I'll go in find and try to find Rey -- (improvising, fast) -- The troopers'll be on our tail.
We have to be ready for that. There's an access tunnel that'll leads -- (Han starts pointing with his chin to 
SOMETHING BEHIND

FINN) Why are you doing that? Why are you doing -- this? I'm trying to come up with a plan.
Finn turns -- AND SEES REY, CLIMBING OUT FROM INSIDE THE WALL, carefully climbing back up to the main level! He can't believe it! Chewie MURMURS his relief. Han is maybe more grateful than anyone.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

A Resistance Technician turns to Leia: 

ADMIRAL ACKBAR: The Oscillator's still standing.

OFFICER: X-wings coming back for another round of attacks! 
INT. STARKILLER BASE - CORRIDOR 6 - DAY

Rey climbs up to the corridor, vigilant. She hears a SOUND, SWOOPS her rifle at -- Finn, Han and Chewie! She cannot believe it! All Finn wants to do is hug her -- and she him.

HAN: Are you all right? 

REY: Yeah.

HAN: Good.

FINN: What happened -- did he hurt you? 

REY: Finn. What are you doing here?! 

FINN: We came back for you.
She is speechless -- this is all she's ever wanted anyone to do. Chewie TALKS -- and Rey's eyes nearly tear up.

FINN: What'd he say? 

REY: (shrugs, smiles, though nearly in tears) ... That it was your idea.
Finn awkwardly smiles. It's his nature. They embrace.

REY: Thank you.

FINN: How did you get away? 

REY: I can't explain it. And you wouldn't believe it.

HAN: Escape now. Hug later.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

The X-Wings DOGFIGHT with the TIE Fighters on the surface of the snowy planet. INTERCUT BETWEEN the ships SCREAMING past each other, and the COCKPITS of the Resistance and First Order fighters. Poe's fighter NEARLY COLLIDES with a close- passing TIE Fighter! 

SNAP: I got one behind me. See it? 

JESS: Yeah, I'm on it! 

JESS: Furillo's been hit! 

SNAP: Watch out for ground fire! 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - DAY

The X-wings ROAR across the sky, BLASTING and DODGING the TIE Fighters and missiles.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL Han, Finn, Rey and Chewie, who run out here, into the snow, stopping, eyes on the sky, watching the lop-sided battle.

THE FOUR HEROES TURN TO EACH OTHER, RESOLVE IN THEIR EYES.
A long moment of communication.

HAN: They're in trouble. We can't leave.
(to Finn, re: Chewie) My friend here has a bag full of explosives. Let's use 'em.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

A Resistance Technician turns to Leia: 

KAYDEL KO CONNIX: General, are you seeing this? 

VOBER DAND: Two more X-wings down. That's half our fleet destroyed.

C-3PO: And their weapon will be fully charged in 10 minutes! It would take a miracle to save us now.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - NEAR DARKNESS

Han and Chewie arrive here to find THREE SECURITY STORMTROOPERS approaching a Maintenance Hatch. Instantly, Chewie takes out the middle one with his Bowcaster. Han and the other two Stormtroopers OPEN FIRE, but Han's aim is true.

ALARMS START BLARING! 
INT. JUNCTION STATION - NEAR DARKNESS

Running inside from a parked snowspeeder, Rey opens a service hatch. Finn behind her, as she reaches into the mechanics of the place, very much like the very first shot we saw of Rey.
And she YANKS a piece of TECH from the machinery and: 
INT. STARKILLER BASE - OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - NEAR DARKNESS

The HATCH OPENS! Han and Chewie, having been on the lookout, step inside, weapons poised. Chewie MOANS.

HAN: That girl knows her stuff.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - NEAR DARKNESS

Han and Chewie divide the explosives. Talk in hushed tones.

HAN: We'll set the charges at every other column.
He GROAN/TALKS to Han, who looks around, reconsiders.

HAN: You're right. That's a better idea.
(checks his detonator) You take the top.

(CHEWIE DOES) I'll go down below. Detonator.
We'll meet back here.
They head off in opposite directions.

INT. OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - NEAR DARKNESS

Han finishes placing an explosive. Checks he's all-clear and hurries down to the next level. Chewie climbs up a level.

INT. OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - MAIN ENTRANCE - NEAR DARKNESS

A SQUAD of Stormtroopers SNAP to alert as Kylo Ren approaches.
CONTROLS ARE HIT and the huge DOOR OPENS. Without hesitation, Kylo walks INTO THE OSCILLATOR.

INT. OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - NEAR DARKNESS

A COLOSSAL CYLINDRICAL STRUCTURE. DARK CORRIDORS and CATWALKS. Kylo Ren comes to a stop. Scans the structure.
SENSING SOMETHING, he motions the Stormtrooper Squad upwards.

KYLO REN: Find them.
They rush past him. Kylo Ren turns slowly, and HEADS DOWN.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - NEAR DARKNESS

The Stormtroopers move up the ramp, weapons ready, checking carefully where blind corners intersect from the perimeter.
They come round to the next higher level and PASS CLOSE TO CAMERA. When they've passed, TILT to find CHEWIE, in the shadows of the grillwork.

Once they're gone, he plants another charge.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - NEAR DARKNESS

The Snowspeeder comes to a stop outside the structure. Finn and Rey stop for a moment, look to the sky: THE SUN IS NEARLY

GONE.

INT. OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - LOWER LEVEL - NIGHT

Han finishes setting a charge and is about to move on when he HEARS SOMETHING and conceals himself behind a wide, vertical support. He peaks around the edge and his whole demeanor changes -- HAN'S POV: Kylo Ren appears and stops at the railing, looking down into the filter.
Han looks at his son with a tortured storm of feelings.
WE'RE WITH KYLO REN as he resumes his hunt. He heads directly toward WHERE HAN IS HIDING! Kylo Ren has an INCREASING SENSE OF HAN'S PRESENCE as he moves closer. He comes to where Han was hiding -- but HAN IS NOWHERE TO BE SEEN.
From his hiding place in a narrow, POWER CHAMBER in the wall, 
HAN WATCHES HIS SON PASS ONLY A FEW FEET IN FRONT OF HIM.
Han SHIFTS HIS POSITION in the tight compartment, so he can watch Ren's progress. Kylo Ren turns onto a FLAT BRIDGE THAT BISECTS the open space.
Unaware of his father, Kylo Ren walks purposefully across to the opposite side. Han watches his son walk off -- the CLANK- CLANK of Kylo Ren's boots receding.
This is Han's opportunity to escape but Leia's words echo through his mind. He makes a decision and moves out, to the edge of the catwalk. He calls out, strongly: 

HAN: Ben! The name ECHOES as Kylo Ren STOPS, far across the vast catwalk. He turns.

KYLO REN: Han Solo. I've been waiting for this day for a long time.
Finn and Rey make their way into the space, opening a HATCH that allows A BEAM OF PRECIOUS SUNLIGHT to stream down like a spotlight on Han and his son. Finn and Rey get to a railing and look down. They can SEE and HEAR Han and Kylo Ren on the catwalk below.

HAN: Take off that mask. You don't need it.

KYLO REN: What do you think you'll see if I do? Han moves toward Kylo Ren.

HAN: The face of my son.
Kylo TAKES OFF HIS MASK. Han is JOLTED -- seeing the face of his son for the first time as a man.

KYLO REN: Your son is gone. He was weak and foolish, like his father. So I destroyed him.

HAN: That's what Snoke wants you to believe but it's not true. My son is alive.
SEVERAL LEVELS BELOW them, CHEWIE comes to the rail to watch.

INT. OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - LOWER LEVEL - NEAR DARKNESS

Kylo flares.

KYLO REN: No. The Supreme Leader is wise.
UP ABOVE, Finn, Chewie and Rey watch, rapt. Stormtroopers dot the perimeter of the structure, watching the scene.
ON THE BRIDGE, Han moves closer, stern: 

HAN: Snoke is using you for your power.
When he gets what he wants, he'll crush you -- you know it's true.
Kylo hesitates. Somehow, he does know it.

KYLO REN: It's too late.

HAN: No it's not. Leave here with me.
Come home. We miss you.
For the first time, Kylo Ren seems truly conflicted. Tears flood his stoic eyes...

KYLO REN: I'm being torn apart. I want to be free of this pain.

INT. OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - DARKNESS FALLS

Han takes one step toward his son, but stops himself.

KYLO REN: I know what I have to do, but I don't know if I have the strength to do it. Will you help me? Han hears his son's voice again, pained and vulnerable.

HAN: Yes. Anything.
Kylo Ren unholsters his lightsaber and SLOWLY EXTENDS IT to Han, within a foot of Han's chest. Han almost can't believe it. The moment seems to last forever. And just then, the LAST BEAM OF SUNLIGHT streaming through the open hatch 
VANISHES.
Han actually smiles -- and reaches out for the dark weapon -- but with the light now gone, KYLO REN'S EYES FILL WITH

DARKNESS, HE IGNITES THE LIGHTSABER -- THE FIERY BLADE SHOOTS

OUT, RIGHT THROUGH HAN'S CHEST AND BACK! 

KYLO REN: Thank you.
ABOVE, Finn and Rey GASP -- SCREAM -- 
FINN

(PANTING) Solo.

REY

(ALSO PANTING) No, no.
Han's last moment is looking into his son's face. HAN'S KNEES BUCKLE. The blade tilts down with him... until KYLO REN EXTINGUISHES IT AND HAN HOLDS onto the catwalk -- his life slipping away.
Finally Han FALLS BACK, OFF THE CATWALK, INTO THE DEPTHS OF

THE STRUCTURE! 
INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

Leia, feeling it instantly -- knowing -- drops into a seat, 
DEVASTATED.

INT. OSCILLATOR STRUCTURE - NIGHT

Kylo Ren is somehow WEAKENED by this wicked act. Himself horrified. His SHOCK is broken only when -- CHEWIE CRIES OUT IN AGONY! Chewie furiously FIRES AT KYLO REN, HITTING HIM IN THE SIDE! Kylo Ren falls back, stunned.

en FOUR, then SIX EXPLOSIONS rock the structure -- CATWALKS FALL as the walls CAVE IN! Kylo Ren SEES REY AND FINN, WATCHING THE EXPLOSIONS IN SHOCK -- then they SEE KYLO REN, WHO RECOGNIZES THEM BOTH, WITH ASTONISHMENT. He rises to his full height and heads for them with long strides.
Stormtroopers begin to BLAST AWAY AT REY AND FINN! CRAZED, 
REY FIRES BACK AS BLASTS HIT AROUND HER. FINN WRAPS AN ARM

AROUND HER AND DRAGS/CARRIES HER OUT OF SIGHT! 
INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

ADMIRAL ACKBAR: The Oscillator's been damaged but is still functional.
COMMODORE META reacts.

OFFICER TABALA ZO: Admiral, their weapon will fire in two minutes.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

From a distance the oscillator is ablaze and fractured from the explosives. Then Rey and Finn appear, coming over a rising, running into a bare-tree snowy forest.

FINN: The Falcon's this way.
Finn and Rey, overcome with emotion, race through the snowy forest -- until Finn SLOWS AND STOPS. Rey stops too, both out of breath. They look at each other. They both know: they can't run.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - FOREST - NIGHT

Kylo Ren moves through the trees -- until he STOPS. Takes out the saber, ignites it.
A still figure amidst the gusts of wind and snow.

STANDING THIRTY FEET AWAY, FACING HIM, ARE FINN AND REY.
Finn holds LUKE'S LIGHTSABER, Rey the Stormtrooper BLASTER.

KYLO REN: We're not done yet.

REY: You're a monster! 

KYLO REN: It's just us now. Han Solo can't save you.

After a beat, Rey moves forward with the blaster -- AIMS IT! Kylo Ren RAISES A HAND -- Rey struggles under his FORCE POWER -- she can't fire -- he strains too, especially with the WOUND: Chewie inflicted. Kylo Ren GESTURES POWERFULLY -- Rey's BLASTER FLIES OUT OF HER HAND -- another GESTURE and Rey FLIES BACK and SLAMS INTO A TREE thirty feet away! She drops -- LANDS HARD in the snow. Dazed, hurt.

FINN: Rey! Rey! Rey... Rey... Oh no. Oh no no no...
Finn turns to her, afraid and concerned. But the SOUND OF KYLO REN'S LIGHTSABER moving makes Finn TURN BACK TO KYLO REN, lit by the glowing YELLOW AND RED BLADE.

KYLO REN

TRAITOR! In reply, Finn TURNS ON LUKE'S LIGHTSABER -- upon seeing the weapon, Kylo Ren REACTS IN SHOCK.

KYLO REN: That lightsaber. It belongs to me! 

FINN: Come get it.
Despite his fear, Finn raises his blade in welcome. Kylo Ren CHARGES at him - Finn terrified -- Kylo Ren LUNGES but Finn DEFLECTS Ren's SPARK-SPITTING blade! Kylo Ren TURNS, ATTACKS, CUTS -- amazingly Finn BLOCKS, COUNTER-ATTACKS -- clearly IMPRESSES KYLO REN, who only enjoys this challenge more! Rey RECOVERS, gets her bearings. Her eyes focus on the two men fighting, through the trees.
Kylo Ren is obviously hampered by his wound, yet he attacks with a primal SAVAGERY -- Finn BLOCKS, turning DEFENSIVE moves into OFFENSIVE ones. And he ACTUALLY GETS A HIT IN! LUKE'S SABER GRAZING KYLO REN'S ARM! Kylo MOVES BACK -- wounded, but more enraged than weakened. Kylo Ren CHARGES AGAIN -- their WEAPONS POUND, SPARKS FLY, their blades LOCK, the men are CLOSE, LIT BY the powerful, CRASHING sabers: And Kylo Ren PUSHES FINN BACK, attacks with pure ferocity -- Finn is stunned -- unprepared for this fierceness.
Rey sees this -- Kylo Ren unleashes a MERCILESS SERIES OF BLOWS, pushing Finn further and further back until he loses balance.

UKE'S LIGHTSABER FLIES FROM FINN'S HAND, THROWN TWENTY FEET! Kylo Ren TURNS OFF HIS LIGHTSABER and REACHES FOR LUKE'S

LIGHTSABER -- BECKONING IT WITH THE FORCE.

LUKE'S LIGHTSABER VIBRATES IN THE SNOW.
Kylo Ren GESTURES, INCREASES HIS POWER -- LUKE'S LIGHTSABER

FINALLY FLIES OUT OF THE SNOW, BULLETS TOWARD KYLO REN -- 
-- AND SPEEDS PAST HIM! 
KYLO REN TURNS TO SEE LUKE'S LIGHTSABER LAND IN THE HAND OF

REY, WHO STANDS, FACING HIM, HAVING REACHED FOR IT HERSELF, 
BUT UTTERLY STUNNED THAT IT LANDED IN HER HAND! SHE IS

SHOCKED -- AND SO IS KYLO REN! Holding it with both hands, SHE IGNITES LUKE'S LIGHTSABER

FOR THE FIRST TIME, HER EYES BLAZING.
Kylo Ren IGNITES HIS SABER.
It's REY who charges now -- Kylo Ren immediately on the defensive. They BATTLE POWERFULLY -- He is clearly rocked by her raw, innate skill.

INT. X-WING - NIGHT

NIV LEK: We just lost R-1! 

JESS: We're overwhelmed! What do we do? It isn't working! Another pilot looks down -- SEES THE EXPLOSION -- coming from the OSCILLATOR. Relatively small, it's an opening: 

YOLO ZIFF: Black Leader, there's a brand new hole in that oscillator. Looks like our friends got in! 

POE: Red Four! Red Six! Cover us! 

LT. BASTIAN: I'm on it! 

ELLO ASTY: Roger! 

POE: Everybody else, hit the target hard! Give it everything you got! And the X-WINGS DIVE and BLAST the OSCILLATOR -- 
EXT. STARKILLER BASE - OSCILLATOR - NIGHT

Another two X-wings -- including Poe's -- soar through the trench leading to the oscillator structure! 

POE: I need some help here! I need some help! 

LT. BASTIAN: I'm coming in! 

JESS: Watch out! 

ELLO ASTY: I'm hit! The alien pilot's X-wing is blasted to pieces.

POE: All teams - I'm going in! Pull up and cover me! 

NIV LEK: Copy that, Black Leader! Good luck, Poe! The trailing X-wings peel off as Poe's black fighter darts into the fiery breach.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - CONTROL ROOM - NEAR DARKNESS

Outside, the SUN ALMOST COMPLETELY GONE -- PULL BACK THROUGH

THE WINDOW TO REVEAL A STARKILLER TECHNICIAN: 

STARKILLER TECHNICIAN: Weapon at full capacity in thirty seconds.

GENERAL HUX: Prepare to fire.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - OSCILLATOR - NIGHT

Poe's X-wing weaves through the breach. A pursuing TIE fighter does not clear the gap, leaving Poe to circle the interior of the unguarded structure, firing volley after volley of torpedoes.

EXT. STARKILLER BASE - OSCILLATOR - NIGHT

The remaining X-Wings -- including Poe's -- BLAST the place -- and the structure begins to CRATER, deep underground 
EXPLOSIONS! 
EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

Amid the BARE WHITE TREES, ONLY TWO LIGHTSABERS -- LUKE'S BLUE AND REN'S YELLOW-RED -- ILLUMINATE the FLURRIES OF SNOW as Rey and Kylo Ren BATTLE HARD.
She seems to be, impossibly, STRONGER THAN HE IS for half a dozen blows -- until he FINDS HIS STRENGTH and FIGHTS BACK -- MOVING FORWARD and PUSHING REY BACK, into the forest.
Suddenly a COLOSSAL CHUNK OF THE FOREST RIGHT BEHIND REY DROPS AWAY! Rey is suddenly fighting on the EDGE OF A

MASSIVE, BRAND NEW CLIFF! 

KYLO REN: You need a teacher! I can show you the ways of the Force! 

REY: The Force.
Rey closes her eyes for a long beat. When Rey opens them, she is centered, fortified, and she POUNDS BACK, SINGLE HANDED SWIPES, hitting Ren's gnarly, spitting saber with incredible FORCE. It's so fast now, so furious, that Kylo Ren FALLS BACK -- She ATTACKS HARDER! Ren gets up again but she HITS HIS SABER'S HILT -- HIS BLADE GOES FLYING OFF, TUMBLING INTO THE SNOW -- and she SLASHES

AGAIN AND AGAIN AND HITS KYLO REN SQUARE IN THE HEAD AND

CHEST. HE GOES DOWN, SUDDENLY A FEARFUL MAN, A LARGE BURN SCAR SLASHED ACROSS HIS FACE! He still reaches for his saber.
And she could kill him -- right now, with ONE VICIOUS STRIKE! But she stops. Realizing she stands on a greater edge than even the cliff -- the edge of the dark side. The earth SHAKES. The earth splits. A gully forms.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT

The area where the RALLY was held is now COLLAPSING into a giant sink hole! We WHIP PAN to a YOUNG TECHNICIAN, who watches this out the control room window in horror. He hurries off, passing COLONEL DATOO, who admonishes: 

COLONEL DATOO: Lieutenant, get back to your station! 

YOUNG TECHNICIAN: (stops, fleetingly) Just look. We won't survive -- even Hux has gone! As he hurries off, WE HEAR: 
GENERAL HUX (V.O.) Supreme Leader.

INT. STARKILLER BASE - ASSEMBLY ROOM - NIGHT

Hux stands before SNOKE'S IMAGE. Relative quiet here, but distant SOUNDS OF DESTRUCTION. Hux tries to keep it together but is horrified, heartsick: 

GENERAL HUX: The fuel cells have ruptured. The collapse of the planet has begun.
Snoke takes this in. Furious, desolate... knowing.

SNOKE: Leave the base at once and come to me with Kylo Ren.

(GRIM) It is time to complete his training.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

Rey turns, runs a hundred feet through the forest to: FINN, who lies, near death, not far from where the GROUND FELL AWAY. Rey falls to her knees near him, turns him over, sees his cauterized but possibly fatal wound.

REY: Finn! Finn...
Tears come to her eyes as she lifts him, holds his lifeless body in her arms. Snow flurries around them as she cries, holding this boy who she just met, who she already adores.
They are left here to die -- nearby MORE TREES DROP as the planet continues to COLLAPSE. And just as it seems like all is lost... Her wet eyes look up to see: 
LIGHTS RISE FROM THE NEWLY-FORMED CANYON -- IT'S A SHIP WE KNOW -- IT'S THE MILLENNIUM FALCON -- and its lights 
ILLUMINATE REY, WHOSE FACE FILLS WITH HOPE! CHEWIE IS AT THE CONTROLS. He ROARS to them! 
EXT. FALCON - NIGHT

Chewie exits the ship.
MOMENTS LATER Chewie CARRIES FINN up the ramp. Rey hurries with them back into the ship -- 
INT. FALCON - NIGHT

Chewie carries Finn inside, followed by Rey.

EXT. SPACE - NIGHT

And we FLY WITH THE FALCON as it leaves the planet -- we can see CHEWIE AND REY PILOTING, the COLLAPSING PLANET BEHIND US. The Resistance X-wings, led by Poe, follow the Falcon.

INT. X-WING - NIGHT

POE: All teams! I got eyes on them! 

SNAP: Yes! The X-wings ROAR OFF, skyward as the MUSIC SOARS, the PLANET IMPLODES -- THE SUNLIGHT IT CONTAINS BURSTS FORTH, and as we get further and further distance from what was Starkiller Base, we witness the REBIRTH OF A SUN. Light restored to a corner of the galaxy.
The Millennium Falcon and the X-wings RIP THROUGH SPACE, headed home.

POE: Our job's done here. Let's go home! 
EXT. D'QAR - DAY

ESTABLISHING SHOT as the Falcon on the landing strip.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

The Falcon has landed among the remaining Resistance ships.
Poe is there, watching as Chewie scuttles down the ramp carrying an unconscious Finn. Medical Personnel and Officers, meet them, usher them inside.

MEDIC: Easy, easy. He's hurt. We've got a heartbeat.
Rey walks down the ramp and sees, for the first time, Leia.
C-3PO and BB-8 behind her. The crowds are cheering.
Rey is so sad for Leia, so sorry.
The two women move for each other. And Leia takes Rey's face in her hands. Despite her heartbreak, she is grateful.
She embraces Rey. A mother's embrace.
Rey cries, too, in this emotional first meeting.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

Chewbacca sits quietly, as do many in the base, mourning their losses.
As BB-8 approaches R2-D2, the long dormant droid suddenly stirs. The droids beep at each other.

C-3PO: R2-D2! You've come back! You found what? How dare you call me that! 
(MORE) 

-3PO: (he swats R2-D2, who 
CONTINUES BEEPING) Find Master Luke how? Come, R2! We must go tell the others at once! 
INT. RESISTANCE BASE - DAY

Leia stands alone and in silence, heartbroken.

C-3PO (O.S.) General? Excuse me, General? Leia turns to see droids.

C-3PO: R2-D2 may contain some much needed good news.

LEIA: Tell me.
Rey stands with Leia, Poe C-3PO, BB-8 and a handful of Resistance Officers. Suddenly R2-D2 PROJECTS A HOLOGRAM! A

LARGE NAVIGATIONAL MAP WITH A SPECIFIC MISSING CHUNK! BB-8 BEEPS -- Poe turns to him -- 

POE: Yeah, all right, buddy, hold on -- Poe runs over -- removes the ancient data device that Lor San Tekka had given him from a base computer. He inserts it back inside BB-8, who then PROJECTS HIS MAP -- which he SHRINKS DOWN TO SIZE -- and the two droids MOVE SLIGHTLY -- 
TOGETHER -- THE TWO HOLOGRAMS UNITE, BB-8'S PIECE FILLING IN

R2-D2'S PERFECTLY! Everyone REACTS -- amazed -- 

C-3PO: Oh! The map! It is complete! 

LEIA: (hand on her heart) -- Luke -- Suddenly there are CHEERS AND EMBRACES.
C-3PO leans down to R2-D2 and says, quietly, sweetly: 

C-3PO: (to R2-D2) Oh my dear friend. How I've missed you.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - I.C.U. - DAY

A NEW DAY. Finn, unconscious in an I.C.U. POD. His fate uncertain. Rey sits with him. Deeply worried. Finally she leans in, close to him. She kisses him and says, quietly, despite her fear: 

REY: We'll see each other again. I believe that. Thank you, my friend.

EXT. D'QAR - DAY

Chewie does last minute checks of the Falcon. Rey stands with Leia a beat and then turns to head to the Falcon. As Rey walks off, she hears Leia call out: 

LEIA: Rey.
Rey turns around.

LEIA: May the Force be with you.
This fills Rey up. She smiles gratefully. Rey crosses to the Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - DAY

Rey sits in the pilot seat, Chewie as co-pilot. Rey looks at him compassionately.
Rey FLICKS SWITCHES and -- 
EXT. D'QAR - DAY

The Millennium Falcon RISES.
Leia, with Poe, BB-8, and C-3PO (with his proper arm replaced), watches the next generation of Jedi begin her journey.

EXT. SPACE - DAY

The Falcon FLIES through space and BLASTS to LIGHTSPEED.

EXT. AHCH-TO - DAY

A pristine and mighty OCEAN. Endless BLUE, dotted with random, beautiful, mountainous BLACK ROCK ISLANDS, dotted with countless GREEN TREES.
The Millennium Falcon FLIES INTO VIEW, BANKS toward one of the ISLANDS.

EXT. AHCH-TO ISLAND - DAY

Rey, her staff strapped to her back, begins her hike up the considerable mountain, glancing back at Chewie and R2-D2, who watch her from the bottom of the ramp. A deep breath and Rey continues her journey.

EXT. AHCH-TO ISLAND - STONE STAIRS - DAY

Built within the rock and foliage of this idyllic island are seemingly endless ANCIENT STONE STEPS. Rey continues to climb them, determined, despite her fatigue.

EXT. AHCH-TO ISLAND - STONE STRUCTURES - DAY

Rey arrives at a clearing. Small, modest, primitive stone structures. But no one around. Rey walks past them, sees, senses no one.

And then she stops. Feels something. She turns.
Standing forty feet away from her, his back to us, is a MAN, in a CLOAK AND ROBE.

Rey stares, knowing exactly who it is. But she just stares for what seems like forever. Until he finally TURNS, SLOWLY, to her. Pulls back his hood.

IT IS LUKE SKYWALKER.

Older now, white hair, bearded. He looks at Rey. A kindness in his eyes, but there's something tortured, too. He doesn't need to ask her who she is, or what she is doing here. His look says it all.

In response, Rey pulls something from the pack.

LUKE'S LIGHTSABER.
And she holds it out to him. An offer. A plea. The galaxy's only hope.

HOLD ON LUKE SKYWALKER'S INCREDIBLE FACE, amazed and conflicted at what he sees, as our MUSIC BUILDS, the promise of an adventure, just beginning...

THE END

THE LAST JEDI

THE GALAXY IS IN A STATE OF FLUX.

AFTER A COSTLY DEFEAT ON STARKILLER BASE, THE FIRST ORDER IS RETREATING RAPIDLY.

THE RESISTANCE, LED BY GENERAL LEIA ORGANA, HAS SUFFERED LOSSES, BUT COMMANDER SNOKE PREPARES A NEW THREAT ALONGSIDE HIS WARRIOR KYLO REN, ON THE HUNT FOR RESISTANCE LEADERS.
LUKE SKYWALKER HAS BEEN FOUND ON AN UNDISCOVERABLE PLANET, AND IN HIS PATH LAYS THE FATE OF THE ENTIRE GALAXY.
The text flies away as we pan down to the IRISH PLANET seen at the end of The Force Awakens.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY

Back to that final shot from The Force Awakens, LUKE stares at REY, surprised and a little shocked at the LIGHTSABER in her hand.
Luke puts his mechanical hand out, Rey passes him the lightsaber.
Luke examines this machine, his old ally, one that carries memories fond and painful.
Rey watches this master reconnect with his blade.
Luke throws it off the cliffside and walks away.

REY: Wait. Wait.
Rey follows Luke.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - PATHWAY

Luke doesnt break his stride.

REY: Ive come all this way.

LUKE: So you know your way back.

REY: Everyone has been looking for you.

LUKE: Which is why Ive kept myself hidden.

REY: Just... Wait one second.
Rey holds out her hand, a tree branch snaps off in front of Luke, almost hitting his face.
Luke stops. He turns around.

LUKE: No.

REY: Look...
Luke shakes his head.

LUKE: No.
Rey lifts some stones from the ground.

REY: Its not much, but I have this power. I just... need to know how to use it.

LUKE: You dont use the force, it uses you, and destroys everything you love.
Luke turns away and keeps walking. Rey watches, getting impatient.

REY: If you wont help me, at least help your sister.
Luke almost slips as he walks, but carries on, away.
Rey waits a moment then continues to follow.


INT. RESISTANCE BASE - HALLWAY - DAY

General LEIA walks down a hallway as soldiers and pilots wander past, a hive of activity.
Behind her, C3PO judders along.

BASE TANNOY: All units report to briefing room immediately.
Leia seems lost amidst the chaos, she stops and stumbles in her walk, mirroring Luke.
C3PO grabs hold of her arm, she looks to the droid and nods.
They keep going.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Leia and C3PO walk into a room full of soldiers sitting, standing, waiting.
Everyone sitting stands for General Leia.
POE sits amongst the pilots, he stands out because have you seen that guy?
Leia sits at a command console, theres a seat next to her.
People look to Leia for leadership. Shes not there for that.

MYSTERY FEMALE VOICE: Listen up soldiers, weve got some new intel coming in.
A figure storms into the room, we see bright pink hair and it

AMILYN: Put it on the screen.
The holo-screen in the centre of the room becomes a star formation with a few pings.

AMILYN: Our scout droids have found seismic activity on a planet in the Letachoin system, only twenty parsecs from the remnants of Starkiller.

Laura Dern sits down next to Leia, she gently touches Leias arm, Leia looks over to watch as Laura Dern presses some computing buttons.
The holo-screen focuses in on one planet, with clear red dots in the north-east.

AMILYN: Of all the intel weve gathered this is likely to be the final battalion of the First Order.
Laura Dern stands and walks through the holo-screen in a cool visual.

AMILYN: Load up every ship, at the end of this solar cycle well have vanquished the first order from the bowels of history. Dismissed.
Troops stand and leave, Laura Dern sits next to Leia again, she looks over, Leia doesnt.
Poe steps through the holo-screen as it expands out to the system.

POE: Excuse me, Admiral, the fleet hasnt recovered from the Starkiller skirmish, I have friends in medbay still. Its not wise to race out so quickly.
Laura Dern looks at Poe.

AMILYN: Whats your rank?

POE: Captain.

AMILYN: Well when youre promoted to General, come back to me and give me your opinion.
(Beat)
Dismissed.
Poe looks to Leia. Nothing.

AMILYN: Dismissed, captain.

Poe salutes and walks away.

INT. RED ROOM

A blindingly red room, wide and long.
A door opens, revealing blackness. From the blackness walks KYLO, masked and caped, walking with purpose.
The door closes, Kylo is the only shot of black amidst the red.
He kneels.
Beyond, we see SNOKE sitting on a throne.

SNOKE: Ren, finally you make time for your master.
Kylo looks up, still kneeling.

KYLO: Its been a busy time.

SNOKE: I know all about losing Starkiller, those at fault will be seen to, have no doubts. Stand, Ren.
Kylo gets back up, he approaches the throne.

SNOKE: But you, I have a special operation for.

KYLO: Master?

SNOKE: The leaders of the resistance are showing their faces, overly confident in their victory. Hunt them down, use all your might, for the good of the order.
Kylo looks up at Snoke.

KYLO: Master, I found one on Starkiller, one whose power felt strong, whose potential could provide the order with strength beyond all.

SNOKE: A Jedi?

KYLO: A sith, master, if we can get to her first.
Snoke shakes his head.

SNOKE: Bah, distractions to the cause, Ren. Focus on destroying the resistance, when we take the galaxy, then perhaps you can take an apprentice.

KYLO: Not an apprentice, Master, an equal.

SNOKE: When I found you I saw raw, untamed power. And beyond that, something truly special. You can lead one day, Ren. You can take the galaxy and rule. Do not let your talents go on hunting another.
Snoke stands, towering.

SNOKE: Not when victory is so near.
Snoke floats towards Kylo.

SNOKE: Clear your mind, find the leaders, crush the resistance.
Snoke is face-to-face with Kylo.

KYLO: Yes, master.
Kylo turns and walks away.

EXT. FALLEN TEMPLE - NIGHT

Kylo exits an old temple, pillars fallen and standing charred to bits.
He takes out his lightsaber and slashes a pillar by him, it collapses as he walks away.

In the beyond, in front of Kylo, a starship sits, with a squad of STORMTROOPERS standing to attention.
Kylo walks towards them.

KYLO: Shape up and ship out, were headed to ACTOS TWELVE on the double.
The troopers form up around Kylo and walk up onto the ship.
It hovers and then shoots off into the night sky, a bright flash becoming just another star.

INT. MED BAY - DAY

A row of beds full of soldiers.
Poe wanders down them, to the near-end where FINN lays, asleep.
A DROID NURSE slides and whistles over, Poe gives a wink.

POE: Nurse, give this man as much relief as possible, were taking his leg today.
The Droid Nurse whistles a few times and shakes its nozzle or whatever it has.

FINN: (Dazed)
Ill keep all my bits thank you.
Poe smiles and pats Finn on the hand.

POE: Morning sunshine. How you healing?
Finn looks at Poe.

FINN: Im about ready to give the first order another hit.

POE: Well were about to ship up, so come with us.
Finn almost sits up, the Droid Nurse whistles over and sears his back-wound, Finn sucks his teeth and falls back to the bed.

FINN: Gimme a minute.

POE: Nice try. Ill come back and see you but good.

FINN: No, hold on, I can do it, just close your eyes, its a lot of pressure.
Poe closes his eyes.
Finn stays laying down.

FINN: There, I got up, but then went straight back down, you missed it.
Poe smiles as he opens his eyes.

POE: Your bravery will be heard across the galaxy. Ill make sure you get a memorial holostatue somewhere fancy.

FINN: You best believe it.

POE: Look, if you do fancy a trip to the first orders last stand, were flying here.
Poe grabs a space-tissue and etches with some sort of spacepen, he hands this to Finn.

POE: We can use all the blaster fodder we can get.

FINN: Youll make an inspiring leader.
Poe and Finn smile as Poe heads away from the bed.

FINN: Hey Dameron.
Poe turns around.

FINN: Bring the fury of the resistance.
Poe clutches his fist in the air, its a cool-as-heck moment, something kids will do in school, and in twenty years will become a cultural moment used in other films because so many kids who grew up loving it now only make films based on this moment, and have no creativity themselves. But for now, in the moment of innocence, before hind-sight, its baller.
OPTICAL WIPE TO:

EXT. STAR DESTROYER - SPACE NIGHT

A large First Order star destroyer floats on amongst the stars. Ships dock with it and leave on missions. It is a hive of activity.

INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE

DOMHNALL Gleeson stands at the windows of the bridge looking out upon the galaxy he seeks to own.
Various suited and helmeted soldiers, officers and tech folk stand below and next to him pressing buttons, looking busy.

PROGSPOCTOR VERGEN: Sir, Kylo Ren has boarded.
Domhnall turns to a normal-looking uniformed person, known to all ComicCon attendees as PROGSPOCTOR VERGEN.

DOMHNALL: Great, maybe he can help blow up another station whilst we make a move.

PROGSPOCTOR VERGEN: Sir?

DOMHNALL: Im venting, dont tell him I said anything.

FRENDERSLUDGE GASSYUNTH: General Domhnall, sir, Master Snoke is sending a transmission.
Domhnall turns to a Rodian in a sleek Black First Order commander uniform, this guy out of make up will sign headshots of his character FRENDERSLUDGE GASSYUNTH for the next 30-40 years.

DOMHNALL: Ill take it in private chambers.

FRENDERSLUDGE GASSYUNTH: Patching through.
Domhnall walks through the bridge, folk salute him as he does so.

INT. STAR DESTROYER DOMHNALLS RESIDENCE

A door slides open and Domhnall walks in to a dark room, with a few shelves of guns and a First Order banner on the wall.
In the middle of the room, Snoke appears large and in blue.

SNOKE: General.

DOMHNALL: Master Snoke, I trust youre well.

SNOKE: Were you ever intending to inform me of Starkiller?
Domhnall nods his head.

DOMHNALL: Of course, sir, an oversight by myself, Ive been arranging new accommodation for the order, away from resistance eyes.

SNOKE: Bah. The first order needs to change its tactics if you wish to win the war.

DOMHNALL: In what way?

SNOKE: Mobility, General, is whats required. We can no-longer focus on megaweapons, but if we keep a fleet free from planets, from any orbits, we can strike anywhere, anytime.

DOMHNALL: Im not sure we have the facilities for that.

SNOKE: (Loudly)
Then Make Changes!
Domhnall gasps for air and clutches his throat. He lets go and falls to the ground a little.

DOMHNALL: Yes sir. Change agreed, sir.

SNOKE: Excellent. Do not fail me again General. The First Order must fight on.
The transmission stops, the room goes completely black, before a light flashes on and Domhnall stands up, dusts himself off, and gives a head-butt motion to the area Snoke just was.
Domhnall goes to walk out of the room, the door opens.
Kylo is standing before him.

DOMHNALL: Master Ren.

KYLO: General. You look well.

DOMHNALL: What can I do for you?
Domhnall walks out of the room, the door slides down.

INT. STAR DESTROYER HALLWAY

Kylo and Domhnall walk and talk as First Order units walk the other way, some salute.

KYLO: I require an additional squadron.

DOMHNALL: Do I get anything in return?

KYLO: Your life spared.

DOMHNALL: Im starting to think its not worth all the trouble.

KYLO: Then I can kill you where you stand.
Domhnall stops, Kylo stops alongside him.
Domhnall stares at Kylo for a beat.
He sighs, they keep walking.

DOMHNALL: Take your soldiers, Ren.

KYLO: Excellent decision, General.
Kylo walks off ahead of Domhnall. Domhnall picks a hair out of the back of his neck in anger.

DOMHNALL: I bloody hate the sith.

INT. IRISH PLANET - LUKES SHACK - EVENING

Luke sits in the dark, a fruit sits in a shimmer of light in front of him. He could force it to his hand.
Luke stares at the fruit. Then gets up and grabs it, biting into the peel.

REY: I can wait as long as you, youre going to have to come out eventually.
Luke rolls his eyes.
REY (O.S.) (
You dont think Id come all this way and turn tail at the first step?

LUKE: You dont know the half of what you think you want to know. And what you do is most troubling.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK

Rey leans on the side of a stone wall. Next to a light wooden door.

REY: And what is it you think I know?
Theres a pause.
The door opens. Luke looks out.

LUKE: You want to use a weapon to hurt, to kill, because you believe power and strength will bring peace to the galaxy.
(Beat)
When you attack, you only create an enemy to fight.

REY: And when you run, you lose everything and everyone.

LUKE: If you think I ran then you dont understand anything.
Luke goes back in, closing the door.

REY: Then make me.

INT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK

Luke sighs and looks over to the half-eaten fruit.
It shakes and starts to rise, heading towards Luke.
He snatches it in mid-air.
CRUNCH.
Another bite.
In the darkness a blue light appears.
Luke looks over.

LUKE: No.
The light forms into YODA, as he was in his ripe old last days.
Standing in the middle of the shack.

LUKE: Master Yoda?
Yoda looks to Luke.

YODA: Back in touch with the force I see, Luke.

LUKE: This shouldnt be. You cant be here.
Yoda chuckles.

YODA: Everything that cannot be is only in the mind of those that cannot see. You blinded yourself long enough Luke, have you gained any wisdom?
Luke shakes his head.

LUKE: I wasnt searching for wisdom Master Yoda.

YODA: Looking for hope were you? But it appears to have found you first.
Luke kneels before Yodas vision.

LUKE: The girl? No.

YODA: You sense it too. There is power in her.

LUKE: What good does that do? Look at what happened before.

YODA: Power and compassion, Luke. The kind I once felt within you.

LUKE: Im nothing like her.

YODA: The fruit that falls to the ground decays, the fruit that rolls down the hill feeds a village.
Luke throws the rest of his fruit across the shack.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK

Rey leans on the wall.
The door bursts open and Luke walks out.

LUKE: Get some rest, your training begins at first light.
Luke walks away from his shack.
Rey punches the air.
Luke turns around.
Rey slowly drops her fist.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE - EVENING

On the runways and hangers of the Resistance base we see troops rushing to ships, droids and mechanics giving final touches, and in the sky a large ship blocks out the sun for a moment as it flies off.
Poe and BB8 rush along towards an X-Wing sitting in residence.
BB8 Whistle whistle spurt whistle.

POE: I know, BB, but orders are orders.
Poe reaches the X-Wing and pushes a side button, the droid lift drops to the ground.

POE: Get on.
BB8 Whistle spurt whistle.
BB8 shakes its head simultaneously.

POE: Youre not leaving me alone.
BB8 Whistle.
Poe grabs BB8 and tries to push the droid onto the lift.

POE: Im sorry buddy.
BB8 opens a compartment and cattle-prods Poe.

POE: Ow.
BB8 Whistle spurt spurt.

POE: Fine. Stay. Ill just die in space.
Some pal you are.
BB8 begins to roll away.
Poe puts his helmet on and presses the lift to rise.
BB8 stops and rolls its head.
BB8 turns back and rolls to Poe.
BB8 Whistle whistle.
Poe smiles.

POE: Theres my buddy.
Poe hits the X-Wing with a Fonzie-like tap and the lift drops.

INT. POES X-WING COCKPIT

Poe sits in the cockpit, he straps in and pushes some buttons.
BB8 Squeal whistle spurt!

POE: Systems activated, Were good to go bud.


EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

Poes X-Wing begins to rumble and move.
Other ships fly off in the background, as Poe and BB8 lift up and start flying off.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Laura Dern sits at the tactical ops table as green dots on a screen in front begin to pop up.
Some techsperts run around with data.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - LANDING SITE - NIGHT

CHEWBACCA and R2D2 seem to be in the middle of a pushing contest as Rey walks down the hillside to them and the MILLENIUM FALCON.
Chewbacca stops and looks over.

CHEWBACCA: Raaawr?
R2D2 pushes Chewbacca one last time, Chewbacca turns and swipes the metal beast onto its back.
R2D2 Beeep! Whistle woah.

REY: Easy you too.

CHEWBACCA: Rawwwr.

REY: Maybe he did, but still no need to hit that hard.
Rey helps R2D2 to their wheels.

CHEWBACCA: Raaaaaaaaaaawr?
Rey shakes her head.

REY: Hes stubborn, hes not heading back anytime soon.

Chewbacca hangs his head. Rey strokes Chewbaccas arm.

REY: But I have a plan.
Chewbacca looks over to Rey.

REY: Ive convinced him to train me a little. Its a start. A long game.
R2D2 shakes its body.

REY: I know, this is an immovable object. I just need to counter that, somehow.
Rey looks to Chewbacca.

REY: Im going to be here for a while.
Id suggest the two of you head back, look after General Organa.
She needs you more.

CHEWBACCA: Raaawr, awwwwr!
Rey nods.

REY: Ill find my own way back, Skywalker couldnt have gotten here without a ship.
R2D2 Whistle beep beep.

CHEWBACCA: Raaawr.

REY: Maybe so, but the General is the highest priority right now.
Chewbacca embraces Rey.

CHEWBACCA: Raaaaawr!

REY: Thanks Chewie, you too.

Chewbacca heads up the pathway and into the ship.
Rey looks to R2D2.

REY: Go on Artoo.
R2D2 Beep beep, whistle.
Rey smiles.

REY: Are you sure, its going to be a long time here.
R2D2 Whistle whistle beep.
Rey nods.

REY: Well, if you insist.
The ramp to the Falcon lifts.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Chewbacca sits down at the co-pilot seat, looks around and shakes his head.
Chewbacca stands and looks to the pilot chair. He wipes a tear from his eye, sighs and sits.
He presses some buttons.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - LANDING SITE

The Falcon lifts up as Rey and R2D2 watch.
It flies into space.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Chewbacca steers the wheel high and out of orbit he goes.
A PORG pounces onto the chair beside him.
Chewbacca looks at the creature, it stares back, blinks, then leaps to the dashboard.

CHEWBACCA: Raaaawr!
The Porg throws out a weird alien scream.
Chewbacca punches the Falcon and heads into hyperspace.

INT. MED BAY

Finn lays in bed as a few troops hug people in beds and head off, putting helmets on. Its all action here.
Finn looks around and reaches for a data pole.

FINN: Come on, you can do this.
Finn grabs hold of the pole and begins to move towards it.
His legs swing off the edge of the bed.
Finn winces in pain.
One foot dangles close to the floor.
Finn shimmies off the bed a little.
His feet touch ground.
His legs begin to straighten up.
Finn lifts himself off the bed, holding on to the pole.
He leans too hard and begins to topple, then leans backwards, never finding footing.

FINN: Woah.
A third lean in the centre and Finn finds ground.

FINN: Aaah.
Finn clutches at his back, theres a large white medical sleeve on it.
He removes it, theres a scar on his spine but nothing else.
Finn throws the sleeve and begins to walk, a bit like a baby.
Finn walks the med bay, passing other soldiers.

He charmingly nods and smiles.

FINN: Hey, whats up?
They wave back.
Before him theres one bed surrounded by a curtain.
Finn walks past.

A VOICE: Wait, now? You gotta get outta there. Immediately.
Finn stops, he leans in.
A VOICE (O.S.) (
Because they are bad news, always.
Finns legs give out and he stumbles through the curtain, landing on the bed, in front of a girl.

ROSE: in a glossy and sequined costume.
Rose looks over to Finn, who looks up to Finn.
Finn smiles.

FINN: Hey there, hows things?
Rose quickly shuts off the communicator and stares at Finn.

ROSE: How much of that did you hear?

FINN: How much did you want me to hear?
Rose shakes her head.

ROSE: Im not playing games.

FINN: Thats a shame, Im great at cards.

ROSE: You should get out of here.

FINN: Ive not had a good run of escaping places, it always leads to more trouble.

ROSE: Very well.
Rose heads to leave through the curtains. She stops. Turns back, red eyes.

FINN: Woah, hey, whats wrong?
Rose looks at Finn.

ROSE: Can you keep a secret?

FINN: Not at all, tell me.

ROSE: My sister called from Expraxis, theres a First Order juggernaut orbiting the planet right now.
Finn sits up, he clutches his back immediately after.

FINN: A destroyer?
Rose nods.

ROSE: Only one.

FINN: Laura Derns sending all our fleet to a location already, if the First Order are going to outer rim places like Expraxis then this could be their next step. We have to warn someone.
Finn gets up, he holds out his hand to Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang.

FINN: Come on.
Rose grabs Finns hand and they rush out of the ward.


EXT. SPACE

A large Resistance-engraved ship flies away from a planet, XWings and Y-Wings surround it.
Poe and BB8 take formation with a cluster of 5 other X-Wings, following the convoy.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Laura Dern sits up at the tactical ops table as green dots grow in number and begin to close in on a red dot.
Leia sits in the background. C3PO by her side.
Leia looks around, theres a faint whisper of Leia? and she gets up.
C3PO follows as Leia leaves the room.
Finn and Rose walk into the room and push past folk to stand before Laura Dern.

FINN: Maam, sir, maam.
Laura Dern looks over to the two underlings.

AMILYN: Why are you not on duty?

FINN: Listen, Maam, this girl here...

ROSE: Kelly.

FINN: Kelly, here, her sister says theres a First Order ship orbiting Expraxis right now.

ROSE: A juggernaut. Not been there long.

FINN: These guys dont send ships out for search parties. Ive been there, if theyre sending out a destroyer it means business.
Laura Dern stands up.

AMILYN: Listen here, my intel says all First Order communications are coming from Jolez, weve found no other signals across the galaxy.

FINN: If youve found any signals from the First Order, its because they wanted you to find them. These guys go deep in encryption.

AMILYN: If you think were turning the entire fleet around on a hunch from a cadet and... a turncoat.

FINN: Listen to me, you are sending every chance of the resistance into a shooting gallery.

AMILYN: Get out of my briefing room right now. You wish to be of use to the Resistance? Hop in a ship and fly to Jolez.
Laura Dern sits back down at the table.
Finn lets out a yell and steps back.

FINN: Someone heres gotta wanna listen to this info.
A look at Leias abandoned chair.

INT. STAR DESTROYER HANGAR - SPACE NIGHT

Kylos spaceship sits in the hangar bay, troopers march on in single file.
Kylo walks towards the ship.
Captain PHASMA salutes Kylo and marches with him.

PHASMA: Why did you choose me for this mission, sir?

KYLO: Every time youve deployed with me everyone we meet winds up dead.
Its as good a track record as anyone could want.

PHASMA: Glad to be of service, I guess.
They head into the ship, the walkway rises into the ship and it begins to fly out of the bay, into space.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - HALLWAY - EVENING

Finn and Rose head down the walkways and biways, then stop as a door opens.

INT. LEIAS CHAMBER

Finn and Rose stand at the door, C3PO stands to one side as Leia stares at a wall.
Leia looks over.

LEIA: Oh, hello.
Finn and Rose walk into the room. The door shuts behind them.

LEIA: Hows your back?
Finn nods.

FINN: Fixing up, General.

LEIA: Good to hear. What do you need?
Rose looks to Finn in astonishment.
Finn walks over to Leia.

FINN: We believe the First Order is surrounding a planet right now, possibly scouting new base locations.
(MORE)

Laura Dern wont listen, she doesnt want to stop her assault.
Leia nods.

LEIA: Shes head-strong, do you have any physical evidence?
Rose shakes her head.

FINN: Just witness accounts.

LEIA: Ok. Take a ship over to the planet, scout out any First Order business and report back. Whatever you do, dont engage without back-up. We cant lose any more people.
(Beat)
I cant lose anyone else.
Finn hugs Leia.

FINN: Youre the best, General.
Leia hands Finn a datapad.

LEIA: Those are the hangar codes, dont lose them, for goodness sake.
Finn nods.

FINN: Ill do you proud.
Finn and Rose leave the room in a rush.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - SHIP DOCKING ROOM

Finn and Rose enter a small room with a few control panels, mostly lit in red.

ROSE: What are we looking for?

FINN: Any ship still left in dock.

They both look around the panels, until they come across a green light.

ROSE: Over here.

FINN: Ok.
Finn takes out the datapad and taps a combination below the light.
It goes from green to red.

FINN: Unlocked.

ROSE: Where is it?

FINN: Itll be coming up to the hangars.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE - NIGHT

Finn and Rose rush out of the base and head to the hangars.
Finn stops and looks ahead.

ROSE: What?

FINN: No way.
We see the Millennium Falcon landing ahead of the two of them.
Chewbacca holds the Porg, petting it, and walks down the walkway of the Falcon, leaving the hangar.

ROSE: Finn?
Finn shakes his head.

FINN: Every time.
Finn looks over to Rose.

FINN: Its nothing. Hop on.
They head for the Falcon.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - MOUNTAINSIDE - NIGHT

Rey wanders back to the site she found Luke, she leans over the cliff the lightsaber was tossed.

REY: Its not that far down.
A gust of wind hits, pushing Rey a little closer to the edge.

REY: Maybe a little.
Rey steps back. Onto R2D2, who trundles around.
R2D2 Whistle bleep bleep.

REY: Hey Artoo.
R2D2 Bleep whistle whistle.
Rey shakes her head and sits on the ground, R2D2 leans onto Rey.

REY: Hes not like I thought hed be.
Mean, angry, grumpy. Hes like an old man.
R2D2 Bleep bleep whistle.

LUKE: I heard that.
R2D2 Bleep bleep.
Rey looks over, Luke stands in the darkness, walking towards the light.

LUKE: Artoo?
R2D2 moves towards Luke.

R2D2 Whistle.
Luke almost smiles.

LUKE: They dragged you back into all this too?
R2D2 rocks his body back and forth, looking like a nod.
Rey stands up.
R2D2 Whistle bleep.
Luke puts his hand on R2D2.

LUKE: Youre looking good at least, one of us aged well.

REY: What are you doing out here?
Luke looks to Rey.

LUKE: I admit I was harsh on you. Not used to other people these days. To find your path in the force you first have to find the force in your path. Theres a bank of crystal south east of here that amplifies the force, if you can bring back some of that, we can begin your training.

REY: How do I know where they are?
Luke taps his forehead.

LUKE: Youll feel it.
Luke looks to R2D2 with a duh face. Its a gif-able moment.

REY: Right away master.

LUKE: Dont call me master. Im just some old guy.

REY: Ok.
Rey jogs off.
R2D2 turns to Luke.
R2D2 Whistle beep.

LUKE: She doesnt know that.
R2D2 runs into Lukes leg.

LUKE: Whats with you?
R2D2 Whistle.

LUKE: Well follow her if you feel that way.
R2D2 turns and rolls in the direction Rey went.

LUKE: Silly droid.

EXT. SPACE - SPACE NIGHT

The Resistance fleet exits hyperspace and appears before a planetary system.
We go between cockpits.

POE: This is Red Seven, reporting in.

PORKINS JUNIOR: Red Three reading you loud and clear.

DEMADRE OLAGLANTHINE: Red Five copying.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

In a low-light environment, we see three engineers, two pilots and Captain RESUSTUS WAGATITO, a Mon Calamari, looking at the same holo-screen as Resistance Base.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Silver One reads you all. Were picking up seismic activity on the third planet up ahead. You have clearance for approach.

EXT. SPACE

The huge Resistance Spaceship unleashes waves of transport ships, as Poes X-Wing unit travel with them to a grey planet deep in the system.

INT. RESISTANCE TRANSPORT SHIP

A squadron of Resistance fighters sit, backs to the wall, facing one-another, in a dark ship hull.
Among them we see JING-KLAT BOOVE, a 30-35 year old human male, OOF BEFESDA, a 30-35 year old human woman, with a scar down the right side of her face, and RATTER BALANSIKOV, a Nautolan like Kit Fisto (Real name of a character in the prequels, George Lucas just let google autocomplete that stuff. The Death Sticks guys surname was Sleazebaggiano for petes sake).

JING-KLAT: We land in T-minus 5, check your load-outs everyone, this could get messy.

OOF: Getting read-out of the planet.
Soldiers check and load-up heavy blasters and bag up various equipment in bags. Ratter takes out a datapad.

RATTER: Scout info says atmosphere is clear. Strong orbital pull, take only the necessities, no helmets.
Troops throw helmets off their heads and unpack a few largergrade weapons.

EXT. VANAGARA (THE GREY PLANET)

Five shuttles fly through the atmosphere and shake as they come speeding towards the ground.


INT. RESISTANCE TRANSPORT SHIP

The interior is shaking.

JING-KLAT: Hold on tight. Pilot, take it easy, well have to jump out.
Everyone gets up and heads to the back of the ship.

EXT. VANAGARA

Shuttle doors open as the ships near the ground.
Troops leap out with little equipment, they form a large circle in the middle of nowhere.

OOF: Form up, get eyes on the horizon.
Shuttles begin to take back off as everyone takes aim and/or binoculars towards the many directions of seeming-infinity.
Jing-Klat kneels to the ground, he rubs the grey dust to reveal red underneath.
He licks the dust.

JING-KLAT: Salt.

RATTER: Salt? How, theres no water.

OOF: Anymore.

EXT. SPACE

Poe sits in his cockpit, looking down at the planet as a tactical screen of the planet sits on his dashboard. Theres a cluster of green dots with nothing else nearby.

POE: This is Red Seven, if you can hear us down there, report back. Air support may not be possible with the planets pull.


INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Were seeing movement north-east of your position.
A red dot appears on the holo-screen.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Laura Dern leans in to the red dot on her screen.

AMILYN: What is that? Where are the First Order?
People scramble to type into machines around Laura Dern.

EXT. SPACE

Poe leans in to look down to the planet.

POE: What are we reading here? Can we get eyes?

EXT. VANAGARA (THE GREY PLANET)

Three different troops turn their binoculars towards the north-east.
POV: We see stretches of grey dust and brown-grey sky going in and out of focus.
And then one little bit of grey movement.

ARTEMIS GORANTHIMER: I see something. Cant place it.
Hold on.
Theres a thunderous sound echoing across the land.
And suddenly.
That movement.
Is the head of an AT-AT WALKER.
A blast of RED.

ARTEMIS GORANTHIMER (O.S.) (
Oh no. Its a walker.

EXT. SPACE

Poes eyes widen.

POE: No.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

AMILYN: Did they say a walker? The first Order has walkers now?

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Watch yourself out there.

EXT. SPACE

POE: Get out of there now.
RESUSTUS WAGATITO (V.O.)
Negative, Blue squadron, we need eyes.

POE: Without support we may not have anything left.
RESUSTUS WAGATITO (V.O.)
Watch it Red Seven.
Poe shakes his head and takes his X-Wing towards the Resistance ship.

EXT. VANAGARA

On the opposite side of the troops a blast of salt and red earth explodes into the sky.

OOF: Theyre firing at us.
A trooper looking through binoculars waves his arm.

FANGIBAL THETARITUS: More movement south east.
Jing-Klat turns and grabs the binoculars. He looks out.

JING-KLAT: Ambush. Its an ambush.
Another hit of salt and earth a little away from the troops.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Laura Dern stares at the screen.
A red dot appears south-east of the green dots.
And a few more red dots between them.

AMILYN: There it is, everyone. Weve found the First Order. Take them down.

EXT. VANAGARA

Two troopers reveal large rockets and take aim at the walkers.

JING-KLAT: Fire.
Rockets shoot off.
We see five walkers, heads sinking a little towards the ground.
Rockets fly towards the legs.

BOOM: SMASH: The rockets hit the ground half a parsec away from the walkers.

THEDGE MACKLINTOCK: Its no use sir, the planets pull is weighing down the rockets.

OOF: Ok everyone, bunker down, dont give them a target.

Troops begin to sink hands into the ground, digging it up infront of them.

EXT. SPACE

The X-Wings head into the hangars of the Resistance Spaceship.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP HANGAR

Poe jumps out of his X-Wing as others land.
BB8 hops out and follows Poe down the room, into a hallway.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

Poe bursts into the room.

POE: Captain, weve gotta make a move before we lose everything down there. We need to initiate an air attack.
Resustus turns to Poe as the red dots gain ground on the screen.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Red seven, you have no right bursting in on this bridge. Get back in your ship and watch out for any exterior forces.

POE: Whilst everyone down there is about to die?

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: What would you have us do, Dameron?

POE: The F-Fighters are pressureenforced. Made for underwater attacks.
Resustus shakes his head.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Those things barely function anymore, we just havent been able to scrap them yet.

POE: I can fly them, my squadron can do it. Let us help.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Admiral Dern?

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

The Resistance force is doing background work very well.

AMILYN: Negative, do not send more forces on the ground. Can you initiate an orbital strike?

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: The targets are closing in, we cant be completely accurate.

AMILYN: Whats the casualty ratio?
Resustus looks to some of his engineers. Someone hands him a datapad.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Eight to one.
Poes jaw drops, he looks horrified.

AMILYN: Ok. Do it.

POE: No.

AMILYN: Stand down, Captain.

POE: Admiral!

AMILYN: Stand down captain, or you will be detained.
We make note of two heavy-duty security troops standing by the doorway.

Poe lifts his head back.

POE: ARGH.

AMILYN: Captain, strike these First Order bantha, hard.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Affirmative.
Poe walks out of the room, hitting the wall on the way.

EXT. SPACE

The Resistance Spaceship maneuvers to face the planet, two large cannons appear at its front.
Just as they are aiming to shoot, we hear a BOOM.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - WOODS - NIGHT

CU: A huge tree trunk on the ground, it breaks with the same BOOM.
R2D2s wheel trundles over it.
We pull back to reveal its a tiny twig.
R2D2 looks around, trees everywhere, no sign of Rey.
R2D2 Whistle beep beep.
R2D2 keeps wheeling through the woodlands.
A small CHATTER of noise breaks through.
Then hint of FOOTSTEPS.
R2D2 spins around.
R2D2 Whistle beep WAAAAAO.
R2D2 stops. The noise stops.
Nothing.
Another CRACK of a twig.

R2D2 turns.
From a hole in a tree, a PORG jumps out onto R2D2, it lands on the droids head and taps it with their small beak.
R2D2 Beep beep whistle.
R2D2 spins around and the Porg flies off.
The Porg runs off, R2D2 keeps trundling down the woods.
Another twig SNAPS.
R2D2 turns around.
A small army of Porgs run towards R2D2 and leap all over it.
R2D2 WAAAAAAAAOOOOOOO.
R2D2 spins around but the Porgs overtake him.
A figure in the shadows runs towards R2D2.

REY: Go.
Rey waves her hand as she comes into the light, the Porgs are seemingly pushed off R2D2.
The get back up and look at Rey and R2D2.
One Porg hisses at them, then they all run off.
Rey dusts R2D2 off and looks at it.

REY: Are you ok?
R2D2 Whistle beep beep bloop.

REY: It looked like it, I just lent a hand.
Rey stands back up.

REY: Did he send you to keep an eye on me?

R2D2 Whistle Beep.

REY: Oh, thanks. Is there much you can do here?
R2D2 Whistle whistle beep beep beep.

REY: Ok, sorry. You just looked a little helpless a moment ago.
R2D2 Beep beep whistle.

REY: I guess well see. Follow me, I sense were close.
Rey walks back into the darkness, R2D2 looks around one last moment and follows.

INT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK

Luke sits down in his shack, he closes his eyes.

LUKE: Old habits, here goes nothing.
We push into Lukes beardy face.
And kick back out hard, flying out of the shack, and out of orbit of the planet, into...

EXT. SPACE

We ping-pong between planets and solar systems until we crash into...

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

The Millenium Falcon sitting in wait.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Finn and Rose rush into the cockpit. Finn looks around at all the buttons and points at a few of them, mouthing things to himself.

Rose sits down in the pilot seat and clicks some buttons.

FINN: Woah, hey, what are you doing?
Rose turns to Finn.

ROSE: Getting this thing started up, take a seat. This might get bumpy.

FINN: You know how to fly this thing?
Finn sits down.

ROSE: I know how to fly. This looks really antiquated, but Im sure most of the systems are the same.
Rose clicks a button, the Falcon jolts forward a moment.
Finn hits the dashboard, then sits back down.

FINN: Easy.

ROSE: Well at least we know how to land now.
Finn slowly puts on the seatbelts.

FINN: What about this lever?
Finn puts his hand on a lever between the two of them.

ROSE: Nothing for you to handle.
Finn takes his hand off but quick.
Rose taps a few more buttons and then lifts the steering wheel towards her.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

The ship kangaroos a few steps before taking to the sky.


INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

FINN: Woo!
Finn punches his fist into the air, he hits a button up top.
The exterior goes blurry.

ROSE: Hit that button again.
Finn reaches and hits the button.
They jolt forward in their seats.
Outside we see a planet suddenly appear.

ROSE: Oh no.
Rose turns the wheel in different directions.

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon swerves out of the way of a planet and into darkness.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Rose wipes sweat off her brow. Finn chuckles.

ROSE: Thats most of the hyperdrive engine wiped.
LUKE (V.O.)
(Fuzzy)
Han?

ROSE: What did you say?

FINN: Huh?
LUKE (V.O.)
Where are you?

Rose turns around, seeing nothing.

FINN: Are you alright?

ROSE: Just echoes of something.
We kick out of the Falcon and fly through...

EXT. SPACE

Back to the Resistance Base planet, and into the...

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - HALLWAY

As tech and engineers run down to the Briefing Room.
We fly into...

INT. LEIA'S CHAMBER

As Leia sits at a desk, facing into the ether.
LUKE (V.O.)
Leia.
Leias eyes react.

LEIA: Luke?
C3PO turns to Leia.

C3PO: General?
Luke appears in blue before Leia, she stands.

LEIA: Luke, youre here.

INT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK

Luke sits, eyes open, as Leia in blue appears before him.

LUKE: I cant find Han.

Leia shakes her head.

LEIA: Where have you been? We need you.

LUKE: The universe is better without me.

LEIA: I need you.

LUKE: Leia...

LEIA: He killed him, Luke.
Luke stares at Leia.

LUKE: Ben... Im... I...

LEIA: Dont.

LUKE: I shouldnt have...

LEIA: You did nothing.
Luke nods.

LUKE: I did everything.

INT. LEIA'S CHAMBER

Luke disappears, Leia stands facing nothing. A tear runs down her face.
Chewbacca walks over to Leia and hugs her. We push in on Chewbaccas face.

INT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK

Lukes eyes are closed again.

LUKE: Im sorry.
Luke opens his eyes again.


INT. LEIA'S CHAMBER

Chewbacca moves his arms away from Leia.

CHEWBACCA: Roaaaar.
Leia touches Chewbaccas face.

LEIA: I know.
Theres a rumble of footsteps outside.
Leia looks over to the door.
She hops to it, walking out of the room.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - COAST - NIGHT

Rey and R2D2 leave the woods and find themselves at lands end. Waves crash towards them.
R2D2 Whistle.

REY: Im not sure. Its somewhere.
Rey and R2D2 head to the very edge of the land.
Beyond, we see an ocean, with a very wavy light emanating under it.
Rey closes her eyes and reaches out.
The light grows stronger.
R2D2 Whistle beep beep.
The light grows stronger until a large crystalised rock breaks out of the water.
Reys arms shake, she lets out a moan and drops to her knees.

REY: Aaaargh.
Rey opens her eyes, the crystal crashes back down onto the water and begins to sink out of view.

REY: No.
Rey looks over to R2D2.

REY: You cant float by any chance?
R2D2 Whistle whistle.
R2D2 backs away from the water.

REY: Can you at least lend a hand?
R2D2 pops open a compartment, a cable appears.
Rey grabs it.

REY: Thanks.
(Taking a deep breath)
Here goes nothing.
Rey runs towards the edge, the cable keeps flowing from R2D2.
Rey dives into the water.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - UNDERWATER

Rey dives down into a dark sea.
The crystals shine before her, a little too far to reach.
Rey keeps swimming.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - COAST

R2D2 bounces around as the cable spurts from its interior.
R2D2 is suddenly pulled closer to the water as the cable reaches its end.
R2D2 pulls back, spikes come out of its wheels and dig into the ground.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - UNDERWATER

Rey swims, then the cable pulls her back.

Rey tries to drag the cable closer.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - COAST

R2D2 is yanked a little closer to the water.
The wheels spin backwards and the droid reverses again.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - UNDERWATER

Rey is dragged a little back.
She looks at the cable, then forward, where the crystal deposit glows.
Rey reaches out.
The deposit shakes and begins to move.
It comes closer and closer, nearly blindingly light.
Rey reaches out with one hand, she touches the crystal.
Rey tries to get the cable closer to the crystal.
She yanks once, twice...

EXT. IRISH PLANET - COAST

R2D2 jolts forward. And again. And finally is dragged over the edge.
R2D2

WOAAAAAAAAH: R2D2 powers up thrusters and flies back.
The cable begins to retract.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - UNDERWATER

The cable flies out of Reys hand, she spins around, grabbing onto the crystal, breaking off a piece as she loses all control.
Rey lets out a gasp of air, the deposit drops down, she swims after it but begins to lose consciousness.
POV: The light from the crystal fades away, a hint of light from the broken piece floats nearby.

Things go in and out of focus, as a swarm swims closer and closer.
We see Rey give out one last bubble of air and her eyes close.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - COAST

R2D2 lands near the woods.
Behind it, Porgs come swarming out running into the water and diving.
R2D2 is pushed along with them.
R2D2 Whistle beeep woooooah.
R2D2 fires up the boosters, a few Porgs get hit by fire and scatter around until they hit the water.
R2D2 fires its cable to a tree and flies over to a safe spot as Porgs rush the water in droves.
Further down the coast, by a large cliff wall, Rey is pushed up to the rocks by a swarm of Porgs.
R2D2 flies over.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - ROCKS

R2D2 lands near Reys body.
R2D2 Whistle beep beep.
R2D2 bumps Rey a few times with one leg.
Nothing.
R2D2 takes out an electric prod and hits Rey.
She sits up, spitting out water.
Rey looks at R2D2 and a bunch of Porgs standing around.

REY: What? How did...
Rey looks beyond the Porgs.

REY: Is that...
We see a Porg hop off a rock.
Lukes Lightsaber sits, broken, on the rocks.
Rey reaches over and grabs it.

REY: Oh.
Rey looks at R2D2.

REY: Dont tell Master Skywalker.
R2D2 Beep beep.
A Porg makes a squeal, then spits up the broken piece of crystal.
Rey smiles and picks up the crystal, then pats the Porg on the head.

REY: Youre not so bad.
Other Porgs waddle over to Rey and place their heads on her.

EXT. MILLENIUM FALCON - SPACE NIGHT

The Falcon screams through space.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Rose clicks buttons as the ship comfortably sails.
Finn keeps an eye on her.

FINN: Howd you pick up all this flying stuff?

ROSE: Santha and I lived on a planet called Mbagrana for the first ten years of my life.
(MORE)

It was an Empire outpost for the longest time, abandoned and left to rust and starve.
Rose clicks the autopilot on and leans back.

ROSE: Most days wed play in fallen ship husks, Santha would be a rich and beloved performer, flying through space, going from big venue to big venue. I would be a pilot, shooting down the Empire and picking up people, taking them to a new, better life.
Rose looks out to space.

ROSE: I started piecing bits of ships together, I was gonna fly the two of us out of there, and into the stars. Then the First Order started enlisting. Our dad took up arms to pay to shuttle us off.
Rose shakes her head.

ROSE: Santha was older, she was moved up the list and shuttled out. I was left on Mbagrana alone. My father was shot down soon after and the Order cut communication entirely.
So I began building a ship, it was junky and broken, but it got me out of there. Just. I crashed on a moon some systems over. The distress beacon worked, thankfully. I was picked up by Resistance scouts, and helped out with ship maintenance.
Rose shrugs.

ROSE: It wasnt shooting down the Empire but it was at least helping out.

ROSE: FINN: So howd you find your sister again?

ROSE: One of the engineers spent a week losing everything on a Sebak table, was sure he saw me walking past on a hand and got distracted. He ran up to her and discovered who she was. She handed him a direct holocom, Ive kept it close ever since.
Rose taps gently on her coat pocket, by her heart.
Finn smiles softly.

FINN: In all of the galaxy, to never truly lose one another, thats special.
Rose smiles.

ROSE: I feel lucky.
She turns to Finn.

ROSE: What about you, do you have anyone out there?
Finn nods.

FINN: I think I do.
We move out into the darkness of space. Just BLACK, and quiet.

EXT. VANAGARA - DAY

The black and silence is scratched away as we see Resistance troop digging through towards us, we are below the soil.
Above ground, we see the circle of troops having created a small wall of dirt around them, and are bunkering down considerably.

THUMP: Walkers keep coming, closing in slowly.
Besides them giant RED BEAMS crash, causing dirt to explode and cover the air in salt and red dust.
One RED BEAM hits metres away from the troop encampment.
People fall and dust themselves off.

OOF: Are we ok?
Soldiers nod and give thumbs up.

JING-KLAT: Hey, were getting hit hard down here, watch the strikes.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

Resustus sits looking at the holo-screen and the planet in the window outside.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: We cant be exact, were just trying to provide cover.
JING-KLAT (V.O.)
Well too many more of those and well be gone.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Leia, C3PO and Chewbacca walk into the room. People stop working to salute Leia.

LEIA: At ease.
Leia sits next to Laura Dern.

AMILYN: General, welcome back.

LEIA: Can I get a sit-rep?
Laura Dern nods, two techies rush over with datapads.


EXT. SPACE

The Resistance Spaceship fires off more orbital strikes.

EXT. VANAGARA

A Walker shoots, then is hit by a RED BEAM and explodes.
Another RED BEAM hits close to the Resistance troops, a few bodies fly. They do not get up.

JING-KLAT: Weve got units down here, cease fire, cease fire.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP - HALLWAY

Poe rushes down a hallway, he stops as we hear Cease Fire.

POE: No.
Poe doubles his speed.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP HANGAR

Poe runs into the hangar, the X-Wings have all landed and the pilots are standing, waiting.
Poe stops running and stands in front of everyone.

DEMADRE OLAGLANTHINE: What are our orders Captain?

POE: Orders?

PORKINS JUNIOR: Yes sir.
Poe looks at every man, woman and calamari before him.
He shakes his head.

POE: Were grounded, hold steady.
BB8 rolls up to Poe.
BB8 Bleep bleep boop.

POE: I know, I know.

EXT. VANAGARA

The troops dig in further, Oof looks to Ratter.

OOF: Remember Wandada?

RATTER: All too well.
Oof takes two thermal detonators out of her satchel, Ratter nods and takes one.

JING-KLAT: Whats going on up there, do we have an exit strategy?
(Beat)
Hello?

EXT. SPACE

Kylos ship flies through space.

INT. KYLOS SPACESHIP

Kylo, Captain Phasma and two pilots sit in a cockpit area, with screens around them. It is lowlight.
Theres an increase in pings on a scanner.
A pilot adjusts the frequency.
The scanners wavelength goes mad.
Kylo looks to Captain Phasma and puts on his helmet.

EXT. SPACE

Kylos ship descends into an Earthy, dirt-based planet.
HOGOLAN.

EXT. HOGOLAN - PLAINS - DAY

Kylos ship lands. Stormtroopers march onto the cracked dirt ground.

These are probably famous people in cameos. Im guessing Jason Statham and Maggie Smith, probably Martin Clunes and Neil Morrissey too, people love those guys.
Kylo and Captain Phasma walk onto the planets surface.

PHASMA: Form up.
The troopers make two lines before the ranking characters.
CELEB STORMTROOPER 1 Captain, signal appears to be coming from over there.
The trooper points. This is a big role for a cameo, so will need to be played by a decent actor. David Beckham, maybe.
Kylo turns his lightsaber on.

KYLO: Lets go hunting.
Kylo walks past the troopers.

PHASMA: Alpha squadron, on me, Beta squadron, take point.
CELEB STORMTROOPER 2 Yes captain.
The troopers move, some circle the ship, others follow Kylo, as does Captain Phasma.
CU: A troopers hand holds a scanner, it pings louder and louder.
Kylo begins to move swifter towards the ping.
Before them theres an opening to a cave.
Captain Phasma nods to a trooper, they fire a few shots into the cave.

KYLO: Well, weve lost our surprise.

PHASMA: This is how we manoeuvre.

KYLO: No point being subtle now, I guess.

Kylo runs right into the cave mouth.

INT. CAVE

Kylos lightsaber illuminates the increasingly dark cave.
Theres no sound except the buzzing of his blade.
Behind Kylo, Phasma and two troopers follow.

BANG: A green blast shoots from deep inside the cave.
Kylo waves his hand, the blast hits the ceiling.
Some rock falls.
Troopers fire towards the shots origin.

KYLO: Wait.

PHASMA: Cease fire.
The troopers stop shooting.
Kylo stands, gripping his lightsaber hilt tight.
Tens of blaster shots fire off towards them.
Kylo deflects them with his blade, he runs towards them.
Deeper in, theres four people shooting with blaster rifles.
Kylo slices a blaster, it explodes, more rubble and rock.
He slashes someone, and pushes another towards the ground.
Kylo picks the last one up with the force and begins to crush their helmet.
The grounded enemy aims her gun at Kylo.
Shes about to shoot.
Kylo flings the other body away.

ZAP: The grounded enemy falls back down.

Captain Phasma holds a blaster to the enemy, she looks over to Kylo who looks back to her.
Kylo nods.

PHASMA: Youre welcome.
Kylo walks even deeper into the cave.
All light is Kylos red glow now.

RANDOM RESISTANCE ALLY: Stay back.

KYLO: Come out peacefully and you will be spared.

RANDOM RESISTANCE ALLY: Never.
A few enemies fire from various angles.
Kylo waves them away and throws his lightsaber towards one.
The enemy is seen by the red light going through their chest.
Kylo takes the blade back.
He leaps towards another, slashes, then throws the saber again.
Troopers toss in some syfy glowsticks and we see theres nobody left.
In the middle of the end of the cave, a signal beacon sits.
A small blue light from the middle.
A trooper goes over and plugs in their radar.
CELEB STORMTROOPER 3 Getting their comms now. Tracking.
KABLAMMO!
A blaster shot hits the ceiling above the trooper.
Some rock falls.
Kylo and Phasma look to the origin.
Kylo reaches out his hand.

A CHILD floats towards Kylo.

KYLO: Arent you a little young to be with the resistance?
The Child drops the blaster in their hand. Kylo puts them down.

KYLO: Were... were they your parents?
The Child nods.
Kylo turns off his lightsaber. The cave is now lit by the blue glowsticks.

KYLO: Im sorry. I know what its like to lose a father.
Captain Phasma looks over to the Trooper, who gives a thumb up.

PHASMA: We have what we need.
(To Kylo)
Lets move out.
Kylo takes off his helmet and kneels down to the Child.

KYLO: Dont be afraid. We wont hurt you.

PHASMA: Master Ren?
Kylo looks to Phasma, and the troopers.

KYLO: Pack up, Ill meet you at the ship.

PHASMA: Yes sir.
Phasma and the Stormtroopers leave the cave.
Kylo looks back at the Child.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM - NIGHT

Laura Dern and Leia and C3PO and Chewbacca and a gathering of Resistance intelligence officers stare at the holo-screen as

JING-KLAT (V.O.)
Cease Fire! Mayday! Were losing soldiers!
(BUZZ)
ldiers Static prevails.
The voice comes in again, but faintly, before stopping entirely.

AMILYN: Hello? Come in?

EXT. VANAGARA - DAY

In the partially-dug bunker, Oof, Ratter, Jing-Kang and twelve other soldiers are digging, Oof and Ratter seem to be digging diagonally.
There are bodies everywhere.

JING-KLAT: Base, confirm?
(Beat)
Base?

OOF: We need hands.

JING-KLAT: Weve lost contact.
Jing-Klat heads to Oof and starts digging.

RATTER: Then we havent much time.
Jing-Klat looks down, into horizontal hole.
He begins to claw away at the ground too.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP - HALLWAY

Poe and BB8 head down the hall and into...


INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

Where Resustus and the team are trying to gain a signal.
The holo-screens are not giving any information.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: I said weve lost visual...
Resustus turns to see Poe.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Dameron?
Poe looks at the mayhem, as a few more blasts head down to the planet.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: What are you doing?

POE: Cease fire.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: What? You have no authority.
Poe pushes a gunner off their console.

POE: Comms down, who has authority now?
If we cant see what were even aiming at, why fire?

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Our troops our down their, they need help.
Poe walks right up to Resustus.

POE: So we help them.
(Beat)
I help them.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: No, Poe.

POE: Give me a better idea in the next five seconds.
Poe walks out of the room, BB8 follows along.
Resustus looks to his team.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Curse him. Get this thing connected, no dawdling.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP - STOCK LEVEL

Red Squadron walk into the large stock room, where towering but seemingly aged space ships stand.
Poe and BB8 stand before one of the ships.

POE: Squadron, weve got a battle and a half in front of us, and these machines, well, theyve seen better days.
The Squadron nod.

POE: But I know not one of you would rather sit here and wait than head down and fight for our own.

SQUADRON: Yeah, yes, right on, various noises.

POE: Im guessing none of you has piloted one of these beasts before?
People shake their head.
Porkins Junior nods.

PORKINS JUNIOR: My dad taught me.

POE: Good.
(Beat)
For the others, your droids have basic piloting instructions added.
Getting down to the planets surface will be their job.
Poe looks at the ships.

POE: After that...
Poe turns back.

POE: After that, we make those First Order scoundrels pay with every ounce of our might.
The Squadron punch the air and clap.

POE: Lets do this.

INT. F-FIGHTER COCKPIT SEVEN

Poe hops into the cockpit of a space-dusty ship.
BB8 pops into the back of the ship, seen through the cockpit.
We see various other pilots do the same.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

A red light flashes on a console.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: What is that?

BOGATO CANALBOAT: (Reading console)
The cargo hull, sir, its been opened.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Dameron!

EXT. SPACE

Under the Resistance Spaceship, large hatches open and FFIGHTERS fall out and float.

INT. F-FIGHTER COCKPIT SEVEN

Poe clicks a button.
BB8 Whistle Bleep.

POE: Red squadron, engines on, lets change this battle.


EXT. SPACE

F-Fighter engines burst to life, blue lights emanating.
They all begin to zoom towards Vangara.

EXT. VANAGARA

Jing-Klat, Oof and Ratter are now so deep in a hole, its getting dark.
Soil from above drops down as vibrations and thumps from walker feet increases.

OOF: Now?
Ratter shakes his head.

RATTER: Turn back.

OOF: What?
Ratter grabs the thermal detonator from Oof.

RATTER: Turn back.
Oof looks at Ratter, she solemnly hands him her detonator.
Jing-Klat looks at the two of them.

JING-KLAT: No.
Oof grabs Jing-Klat and drags him back out the hole.

JING-KLAT: NO!
Ratter clicks the detonators.

ABOVE GROUND: The three remaining WALKERS shoot at the hole, hitting it hard.
As the middle walkers foot hits the ground, an explosion from underground brings up soil and salt.

The walkers foot falls through the ground, and the head topples to the ground.
Theres an explosion, and the Walker smashes into a few pieces.
The other two WALKERS keep moving.

FURTHER AFIELD: The F-FIGHTERS come down to surface level, engines firing upwards as gravity pulls down.
They all touch ground with a bottom feeler entering the soil.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

The screens begin to show some basic radar from the FFighters perspective.
A droid whirls into a console.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Red Squadron, can you hear me?
POE (V.O.)
(Crackling)
Faintly, Captain.

INT. F-FIGHTER COCKPIT SEVEN

Poe looks around, other pilots salute.
RESUSTUS WAGATITO (V.O.)
Youre some way off, on your six.

EXT. VANAGARA

The ships slowly turn to their right and shoot off.
Soil and salt are kicked up by their feelers.
A constant trail of red.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Finn snores loudly, a jolt of the ship wakes him up.

FINN: No, youre the bantha farmer!

Finn looks over to Rose.

FINN: Sup girl?

ROSE: Were approaching Expraxis. Figured itd be best if you were awake at some point.

FINN: Just avoiding jetlag.
Rose smiles at Finns notgood joke because hes charming.

EXT. EXPRAXIS SYSTEM

The Millenium Falcon stops hyperspacing and floats on one side of a planet lit up like a million neon signs vomited into a Nicholas Winding Refn movie.
A huge STAR DESTROYER hovers on the other side of the planet.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Finn and Rose look over to the Destroyer.

ROSE: How do we get past that without being spotted?
Finn shrugs.

FINN: I find it best to just go and do what you wanna do and deal with the consequences later.

ROSE: Youre saying land right now?

FINN: If they shoot us down, at least we made it to the right planet.
Rose shakes her head.

ROSE: Hold on to something then.


EXT. EXPRAXIS SYSTEM

The Falcon heads to Expraxis, we see the duo staring at the Star Destroyer the whole time.

INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE

From the window we can see Expraxis, and the Falcon heading down.
Domhnall is looking at a screen in front of the window, showing the situation on Vangara.

DOMHNALL: Come on, there cant be many left.
Just keep shooting!

RAVIOLI MANCARATTCHI: Sir...

DOMHNALL: Not now!

EXT. EXPRAXIS DOCK - NIGHT OR SOME APPROXIMATION

The Falcon lands on a dock high in the skyline, behind we see neon flashing lights forever.
Theres a sense of party in every speaker of the Dolby Atmos mix.
Finn and Rose exit the ship and look around.
A figure approaches.
The figure removes their hood, it is ELAN SelSbaagano Jr.

ELAN: You wanna buy death sticks?
Finn waves his hand at Elan.

FINN: Nah man.
Elan shudders at the hand wave.

ELAN: Oh no, youre not another jedi are you? My father warned me of you.

Elan throws his dubious material on the floor and runs off.
Finn looks at Rose.

FINN: Making friends already. Where do we go?

ROSE: Follow the action.
The duo head off into a sea of neon.

EXT. VANAGARA

Oof and Jing-Klat pop their heads out of the hole and see two Walkers closing in on them.
They look back at the cave they dug.

OOF: Any last minute grand plans?
Jing-Klat looks at the bodies lay strewn across the region.

JING-KLAT: Its been an honour to fight alongside you.
Oof and Jing-Klat take a moment to hug one another.
A rumble from the Walkers, and loud BLASTS.
The F-FIGHTERS shoot at the Walkers from the side, flanking the behemoths.
The closest Walker goes up in flames, a leg falls off and it crashes.
The Walker behind is knocked down like a domino.
The gravity pulls it down to the ground hard.
From the sky, a huge green light comes down and hits the walkers.
They explode.
The F-Fighters shoot the debris as they pull up to the hole.
Poe drops out of his ship and hops into the hole.

OOF: Captain?
Poe sees Oof and Jing-Klat standing there.

JING-KLAT: You came for us?
Poe removes his helmet.

POE: Resistance fights together.
Poe holds out his hand and pulls the two up towards the holes exit.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

POE (V.O.)
The First Order is down. We have two survivors.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: We have survivors?
POE (V.O.)
Confirmed.
The bridge team celebrate like its Apollo Thirteens finale.

INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE

Domhnall takes a sip of space coffee then spits as the last green dot on his screen disappears.

DOMHNALL: No! No, no no no no.

RAVIOLI MANCARATTCHI: Sir?

DOMHNALL: Not now, not ever.
Domhnall walks out of the bridge, into the halls.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Laura Dern and Leia look at one another.

AMILYN: Whats going on with the signal, someone?

ERNESTO MAGDA VOCATCHA: Weve lost inter-system communications. Nothing outside this planet now.

LEIA: What happened?
The Resistance look at one another.

ERNESTO MAGDA VOCATCHA: Sabotage.

EXT. VANAGARA

The F-Fighters begin their ascent.

INT. F-FIGHTER COCKPIT SEVEN

Poe sits in the cockpit, he looks over to the ground.

POE: Hey BB8, you seeing that?

EXT. VANAGARA

Between the smoke and walker remnants, theres another hole in the planet.
The F-Fighter points a light on the hole and hovers over it.

INT. VANGARA CAVE

The F-Fighter sinks its feeler in, a blue scanning light looks around.
We see what looks like a barracks, with First Order markings around.
POE (V.O.)
They built inside another planet?
BB8 (V.O.)
Bleep whistle bleep.


INT. F-FIGHTER SHIP

Oof and Jing-Klat look at one another.

OOF: They must have terraformed.

JING-KLAT: The salt.

INT. STAR DESTROYER DOMHNALL'S RESIDENCE

Domhnall stares at a button on a desk.

DOMHNALL: Here goes nothing.
Domhnall smashes the button hard.

EXT. SPACE

An explosion on one side of Vangara.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Red Seven, you need to get off the planet, fast.

INT. VANGARA CAVE

The feeler lifts out of the cave as the roof begins to cave in.

EXT. VANAGARA

The planet quakes.
Poes F-Fighter fights the pull as it fails to get too far off ground.
From a distance, salt and soil fly in the air then get sucked back down hard.
The ground begins to crack and collapse.


INT. F-FIGHTER COCKPIT SEVEN

Poe grabs his stick hard and pulls.

POE: Come on, you beautiful beast.
BB8 Whistle beep bleep.

POE: All power to the engines.
BB8 Bleep.

POE: We dont need shields unless we get off this planet fast.

EXT. VANAGARA

The F-Fighter begins to get pulled into the ground.
A BLAST of engine pushes the ship up, and it fights through as the ground around collapses.

EXT. SPACE

The F-Fighter escapes the planet as it simultaneously explodes and implodes.

INT. F-FIGHTER COCKPIT SEVEN

Poe turn around to BB8 and laughs.

POE: Good job, pal. How about next time you drive?
BB8 Bleep whistle beep.

POE: You get a day off as soon as I become in charge.
They fly off away from the space debris.


INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE - DAY BUT LOOKS LIKE NIGHT

Rose and Finn walk through a doorway, two TWILEK greeters nod and smile at them, they place HOLOLEI on the two customers.
Finns eyes widen and jaw drops.
The sound explodes to life with the noise and hubbub of gambling, singing, laughing, drunken stupors, anything Reno or Atlantic City might be but about 500 times bigger.

FINN: Oh my days.
Finn nods his head and walks across the grand casino.
Rose follows, looking high and low as she does.

FINN: I know were on a super secret important cool mission but you think we could...
Finn mimes popping a coin and pulling a lever, then splashing coins in his face.
John Boyega makes it work.

ROSE: Shes not gonna be in the main halls. Santha works the entertainment rooms.
Finn looks to Rose.

FINN: Ohohohoo.

ROSE: No.
Rose slaps Finns arm.
The two walk past a Sabak table where two players lay cards down.
A DEALER looks over the cards.

DEALER: Three gleblorgs, house wins.

The two players gargle in anger, one is placed in chains and walked away, the other takes out a blaster, we cut before...

INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE ROULETTE

Finn and Rose walk over to a path edge with railings, beyond the two is a giant spinning roulette wheel.
A gigantic ball drops.
CASINO ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
Final bets please.
The duo watch this giant ball bounce around. A few people hover over, flapping wings, trying to push the ball into various directions.
It is like Rocket League with Watto. Watto League. Coming to PSP this holiday season.
Through the commotion we hear the gentle hums of a song the soundtrack will list as GLABON NANGTO THRAN

ROSE: You hear that?
CASINO ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
Red Four, folks. Red four.
Finn shakes his head.

FINN: Thats three fours in a row. This place is rigged.

ROSE: That voice, singing.
Finn turns around. He nods.

FINN: Yeah. Wait... Is that?

ROSE: Maybe.
The dynamic duo bolt from the wheel-balcony and through the casino.


INT. CASINO PERFORMANCE LOUNGE

SANTHA, early 20s, stands on stage. Shes probably played by a notable instagram influencer with a decent voice. A lessexpensive Zendaya.
Finn and Rose walk into the lounge, and are immediately handed oversized cocktail glasses, with large Shrimp-like creatures in them.
The two sit down and watch.
The two shrimp-beings open their eyes and sway along to the song in the glasses.
The glasses are quickly placed on a table and pushed aside.
As the song finishes, Finn and Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang join in on a gentle applause.
Rose heads over to the stage.
Finn walks with her, but looks around the room.
We suddenly see a few First Order uniformed officials walking through the Lounge, and out to another place.
Finn begins to wander in that direction.

ROSE: Finn?
Finn looks over, Rose waves Finn over.

FINN: One second, yeah?
Finn hops off, on the scent of the First Order.
Rose and Santha run towards one another and have a huge hug.
Finn leans out of the room.

INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE

From Finns POV we see three First Order officials walking quickly towards the back of the gigantic casino, before a swarm of gamblers walk around and make them seemingly disappear.

Finn begins to follow.

INT. CASINO PERFORMANCE LOUNGE

Rose and Santha embrace still.

SANTHA: I cant believe youre here. In the flesh.

ROSE: Youre much taller than I remember.
They unembrace.

SANTHA: And youve barely changed. Why are you here?

ROSE: We had to see how bad things are, with the First Order.

SANTHA: We?
Rose looks around.

ROSE: He was here a minute ago.

SANTHA: (Cheekily)
He?

ROSE: No.
(Laughing)
No.

EXT. EXPRAXIS CASINO BACK ALLEY

Finn opens a door, the blast of noise and light from the casino break through until the door shuts, and all is silent.
Before him, shadows and piles of rubbish, a few drunk aliens and holo-posters for upcoming performances.
Finn walks down the alley.

FIRST ORDER GUY: Hes late.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Hes always where he needs to be, when he needs to be. Hold your tongue.
Finn stops and looks further down.
We see the three First Order suits standing with a heavy creature, VANCIBALD Grantuth, with five heads on rather long necks, each one floating around, saying a word a head.

FIRST ORDER GIRL: We cant be standing around like this.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: This is Expraxis, youre only seen here when you wanna be seem. Dont worry.

FIRST ORDER THIRD WHEEL: I do worry, if General Domhnall doesnt get the go ahead soon, hell...

DJ: Hell what?
DJ walks out of shadows and into the conversation.
Finn in the back remains staring, hidden for the most part.

DJ: Run off to another planet? How many others are so hidden from the Resistance?
DJ walks right up the First Order trio.

DJ: You need me. Me? I can live without you lot, we do very well, and we do it very very well.
One of the First Order team nods and puts their hand up.
Behind Finn, a squad of Stormtroopers march in.

DJ: What is this? A coup?

One of the Stormtroopers hands over a datapad to Benecio Del Toro.

FIRST ORDER GIRL: I trust this will give us something to talk about.
DJ looks at the pad and smiles.

DJ: Ahh, finally were speaking the same language. Tell your general were good to go.
DJ begins to walk away.

DJ: Oh, and for free Ill give you a heads up, were not alone here.
DJ playfully points over to Finn.
A light blares down on him.
Everyone turns to look.
Finn slowly stands up.

FINN: Oh, hey there. You seen a cocktail waitress this tall, long blue hair, tail, three eyes? She said to meet out back.
The Stormtroopers begin to open fire.

FINN: Ok, cool, bye.
Finn turns tail and runs down the alley.
Laser shots blast towards him, every single one missing of course.

FIRST ORDER GUY: Well, follow that man.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: That wont cause a commotion.

FIRST ORDER THIRD WHEEL: Got any other ideas?

Vancibald nods, a group of winged aliens fly down from the sky and begin to chase.
Finn runs and scrambles to open the door to the casino as shots blare.
The troopers are gaining on him.
The aliens are flying in.
The door isnt opening.

FINN: Come on, please dont do this.
He keeps grabbing.
The shots keep coming.
The aliens are closing in.
The door swings open.
A SERVER DROID walks out holding a bin bag.
A shot cuts through, the rubbish falls on the floor.
Various creatures run out of the bag and towards the aliens, biting at them.

SERVER DROID: Why I oughtta!
Finn taps the droid on the shoulder.

FINN: Youre the best droid Ive ever met.
Finn runs into the casino.
The door closes behind him.
The Server Droid looks out as Stormtroopers and aliens gather round, trying to get into the door.

SERVER DROID: Ahh dang it, Im gettin
reprogrammed aint Is?

INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE

Finn darts through various gamblers, a crowd blocks him off.

Theres only one free spot.
A row of slot machines.
Finn rushes down there.
The Aliens and Stormtroopers come into the Casino, holding the Server Droids arm.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Search the area, rapido.
The forces disperse and wander the casino floor.
Finn hides behind the long row of machines, looking behind him, no exit, just a wall.
Stormtroopers walk around. Passing the Lounge, we see Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang and Santha still talking.
Slowly an aging DURO wanders down the row and sits at a machine.

FINN: Hey, shoo!
The Duro looks over to Finn, then back at the machine.

FINN: Please, go.
The Duro slowly lifts his hand up in a yeah yeah fashion.
Two flying aliens perch high above, looking around the casino floor like living cameras.
The creature places a single coin in the machine.
Finn looks back and gets between the final machine and the wall, slowly scooting up the machine.
The Duro pulls the lever down.
The First Order team wanders across the floor, pushing customers out of the way.
DING.
DING.
DING!
A huge amount of light and noise breaks out from the machine.

The Duro gasps and jigs.
Money falls out.
Eyes turn to the machine from all over.
The sky.
The ground.
Everyone rushes over.
The Duro swipes at folk as it grabs the coins.
Finn shakes as he moves further up the machine.
It wobbles.
Finn reaches the top and stands up.

FINN: Aha!
Everyone is suddenly looking up at Finn, including the aliens and Stormtroopers.

FINN: Oh no.
Guns raise towards him.
Finn leaps at the wall and pushes the machine hard, it begins to tumble.
As it does, it begins to light and make noise.
Coins rush out.
And it hits the next machine.
More noise, lights, coins.
Finn begins to run on the machines as they fall.
A tracking shot as Troopers fire towards him, he runs and dodges, money, noise, lights, crowds.
Finn gets to the final machine, the aliens grab him as the machine comes crashing down on one Stormtrooper.

FINN: Get off me.
Finn elbows one of the aliens, it buzzes off.

The other cant hold on, and the two fall to the ground.
Finn rolls and runs.

INT. CASINO PERFORMANCE LOUNGE

Rose and Santha are in their own conversation.

SANTHA: How long are you staying here?

ROSE: Erm...
Finn runs through.

FINN: We gotta go. Now.
Rose looks at Santha and shrugs.

ROSE: I love you.
She begins to chase Finn.
Santha waves.
Stormtroopers come rushing past.
Then two flying aliens.
Then the First Order trio.
Finally Vancibald. He stops, clutching his chest and breathing hard through three of his mouths.
He looks to Santha.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Hows it going?
Santha nods.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Good, good.
Vancibald joins the run again.


INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE ROULETTE

Finn and Rose run, then stop.
Up ahead, Stormtroopers turn and look.
They turn around, more troopers running.

ROSE: What do we do?
Finn smiles.

FINN: Always bet on black.
Finn grabs Roses hand and begins running to the stormtroopers waiting.
They ready guns.

FIRE: Finn and Rose jump as the blasts come to them, grabbing onto WATTO, who looks down and gives them a fist wave.
He flies them over the troopers and they let go, landing on the roulette wheel itself. Black 13.
CASINO ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
Final bets.
The Stormtroopers gather at the edge and look over, guns ready once more.
Rose looks to Finn.

ROSE: Of all the ways to go out, this is furthest from anything I imagined.

FINN: That means its not how this story ends. Look up.
Rose looks up.
The elbowed alien buzzes around, and flies right into the Stormtroopers, a spare.
Some troopers fall over the balconey and onto the wheel.

Things begin to shake.
CASINO ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
And here comes the ball.
The wheel begins to spin.
Troopers start standing up on the wheel.
Others up above.
They fire down, missing as Finn and Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang move around.

FINN: Ive flown through hyperspace but this... this might make me sick.
Rose rubs Finns back.

ROSE: We dont have time for your stomach woes.
From high above, the giant boulder of a ball begins to fall towards them.

FINN: Oh no.

ROSE: We cant be here too long.
The wheel keeps spinning. The faces of troopers come back again.
The two run the opposite direction, ending up running on the spot.
Troopers begin to run over on the wheel.
The ball bounces and knocks some of them down.
Everyone turns tail and runs away from the ball, spinning around the wheel for many rotations.
Vancibald looks at the First Order gang.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Somebody please shoot them.
We see the Stormtroopers high above moving their rifles around trying to aim, and getting dizzy.

Vancibald pushes them out of the way.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Bah!
Vancibald takes out a thermal detonator.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Amateurs.
Vancibald throws the detonator.
It flies towards the wheel, bounding on the ball.
We follow the detonator as it is picked up by one of the betting aliens flying past.
It is grabbed by another, who laughs and looks down.
The alien shrieks and drops it.
Another alien grabs it before it touches the ground, then laughs and begins to throw it to another alien, when the ball hits it.
The detonator falls, and lands at the feet of a Stormtrooper.
They look down, pick it up, then look up to Vancibald.

BOOM: A hole in the wheel.
Finn and Rose run past the hole, look down and jump in.
Troopers follow.
The ball lands on the hole, and stops moving.
CASINO ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
Erm, This is... Erm.... House wins.
Everyone boos and throws rubbish at the wheel.

INT. UNDERGROUND CAVERN

Finn and Rose dust themselves off and keep running, the troopers try and collect themselves, falling over one-anothers armour.
Our heroic duo head deep into darkness, until a blaster shot rings past them, and off to the distance.

The far distance.
Hitting a wall. The flashing light on impact shows something of an early build barracks.
More shots fire, Finn and Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang roll out of the way.
We see in clearer light for a moment, First Order markings on the walls, but nothing much else yet.
Structural integrity looks a little ropey, a few metal pillars.
Our heroes are at the edge of a small walkway, behind them the Troopers, in front of them a large drop down to the inprogress room.

ROSE: What is that?
Finn looks down, then at the Troopers.

FINN: A bad idea all round, come on.
Finn grabs some dirt from the ground, his other hand holding on to Rose and begins to run off the side.
The troopers run to the edge and fire around the room.
Finn and Rose duck and roll as they hit the ground.

ROSE: They have the higher ground.

FINN: You ever seen one of these guys shoot? Come on.
Finn and Rose duck and weave as they run across the room, to a pathway.
The troopers fire, one of them nudges another trooper and accidentally pushes them down.
The other trooper looks to the pusher, the pusher shrugs.


INT. UNDERGROUND CAVERN HALLWAY

Finn and Rose turn to this small hallway, and stop.
In front of them, three Geonosians, lit by a single space light, play dice.
They turn to look at our heroes.

FINN: Hey there. Erm...
Finn straightens himself up and walks towards the insectoids.

FINN: Just checking the safety, all good.
Any of you wanna show me how the exit works?
The Geonosians look to one another, then back at Finn.
They all point down the corridor.

FINN: Thank you. Take the day off.
Finn and Rose head away.
The Geonosians shrug and keep playing.

EXT. EXPRAXIS GARBAGE DUMP

Finn and Rose walk out a small pipeline and fall onto piles of garbage.
Above them, the casinos in full force.

FINN: Of course this whole thing winds up here.

ROSE: This planet is madness. Lets just get my sister and head out.
Finn shakes his head.

FINN: We cant go back in there alone.

ROSE: What?

FINN: If the First Order have so many forces stationed here, we need to even the odds.

ROSE: You have an idea, or are you just shouting into the wind?
Finn takes out the space-tissue Poe wrote on.

FINN: Ive got just the thing.

INT. KYLO'S SPACESHIP - SPACE NIGHT

Kylo sits, mask off, staring at the visualised audio from the Resistance base.
His lightsaber floats in front of him, it carves notches into the wall next to a worrying amount already.
Captain Phasma enters.

PHASMA: Master Ren, permission to speak freely?

KYLO: Go ahead Captain.
Phasma spends the time trying to stand in front of Kylo to get his attention, this will not be happening.
The saber still scrawls.

PHASMA: There are things Im prepared to do for the order, my men are prepared to do for the order.

KYLO: Good, loyalty is important.

PHASMA: Thats not what Im... We dont kill innocent children.

KYLO: No?

PHASMA: I dont...

KYLO: Captain, youve slaughtered many.
Men, women, elders.

PHASMA: But not...

KYLO: Not right in front of you. Out of sight, out of mind, Captain?

PHASMA: Not everyone has to die.
Kylo smiles.

KYLO: I heard stories of one who found the cure for death. Stories mind.
We all succumb to it in the end.

PHASMA: If youre going to take charge of my men, you...

KYLO: I? Best give the orders? As I outrank you deeply, Captain.
Remember that.
Phasma looks around, then back to Kylo.

PHASMA: I will be informing the General about this.

KYLO: I look forward to seeing his whimpering hand place a medal on my armour, Captain.

PHASMA: Eugh.
Kylo finally looks to Phasma.

KYLO: In war, we all do terrible things for the right reasons. Learn to live with it, or find yourself a new position Captain. Thatll be all.
We move to the lightsaber, and match cut to:


INT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK - DAY

Lukes lightsaber sitting on a rock.
Pulling out, we reveal Rey unconscious, lying on the ground.
Luke and R2D2 sit around as Rey comes to.

LUKE: Good morning princess.
Luke reveals a firepit in the shack, and scoops up a bowl of something, placing it to Reys head.

LUKE: Drink up, its all natural.
Rey looks at the bowl. Theres a few plants and a floating beak in the mix.

REY: Is that a...

LUKE: Porg? Annoying little creatures, but they dont taste too bad.
Luke fills a bowl for himself and sips up.
Rey looks over to the lightsaber.
Luke sees her glance.

LUKE: Your determination is commendable, but facing the wrong direction, it seems.
Luke sips again, Rey takes a sip too.

LUKE: Youve used it.

REY: What?

LUKE: The weapon. Yes?

REY: Kinda.
Luke nods.

LUKE: Of course, and you realised it wasnt simply one to pick up and point. Is that why you need me?

REY: No. Gosh, no. The galaxy, General Organa, Han...
Luke nods.

LUKE: The darkness spreads as it always has. Fighting only serves to destroy more.

REY: So youd rather run, hide?

LUKE: Survive. In peace.
Rey looks around the shabby hole Luke calls home.

REY: And as the galaxy cries out for help, this is where their hero will be?

LUKE: You cant bait me to irrationality, whatever happens out there, among the stars, is no longer my business.
Rey stands up.

REY: Very well.
Rey begins to walk off, she looks to R2D2.

REY: Come on Artoo.
Rey opens the door. R2D2 begins to wheel over.

LUKE: Forgetting something?
Luke picks up the lightsaber and throws it to Rey.
Rey puts her hand out to catch it.

A small blast comes from her palm, the saber flies back, hitting Luke in the forehead.
Luke topples over, then gets back to his feet, a red mark on his brow.

LUKE: You really need to use that better.
The lightsaber lifts up behind Luke. It floats towards Rey.

LUKE: Its not a push, its a touch.
Rey grabs the saber from mid-air.

LUKE: Try it.
Rey holds her hand out, the saber begins to shake.
And shake harder.
And spins around above Reys hand.
The hilt flies off, towards Luke, who ducks this time.

REY: Sorry.

LUKE: Ive learnt my lesson.

REY: Its just that something...
something inside me has always been there, but now it's awake and I need help.
The lightsaber lifts from behind Luke. It gently moves into the centre of the room.

LUKE: Take out your crystal, I suppose you deserve the most basic information for your troubles.
Luke grabs the saber and unscrews the hilt, taking out a blue Khyber crystal.
Rey rifles through her pockets before R2D2 opens a port and reveals the white crystal.

Luke sits down and places the parts of the saber between himself and Rey, who sits following Luke.
Rey begins to reach for the pieces.

LUKE: Hold.
Rey stops herself.

LUKE: Before you take the pieces I ask you to understand them.
Luke points to the hilt.

LUKE: This is the body, strong and stable, it can be used by anybody.
Luke holds his Khyber crystal.

LUKE: The heart lives inside the body, it powers everything.
Luke puts the crystal back in.

LUKE: Sometimes it fails, eventually is stops working.
Luke turns the blade on.

LUKE: This is the spirit, the power of connection. It can protect or destroy based on the heart and body.
Luke turns the blade off and removes his crystal.

LUKE: Before you do anything else, I want you to just hold the body.
Luke hands the hilt to Rey.

LUKE: Get a feel, a sense.
Rey holds the hilt, no crystal inside, in front of her.

LUKE: Dont fear it, accept it, understand it, believe in it.
Rey looks at the hilt, she moves it around her hand.

LUKE: Now turn it on.
Rey reaches for her white crystal, Luke grabs her arm.

LUKE: No.

REY: But, it doesnt work without...

LUKE: The heart. Use yours. You can power anything if you truly try.
Rey looks at Luke. He closes his eyes and takes a long breath.
Rey closes her eyes, she inhales.

LUKE: Dont think about it.
(Beat)
Feel it.
Rey gasps and we have a pulse of light become MONTAGE:

INT. SEPERATIST SHIP - SPACE NIGHT

A CU of the saber as it is used to kill COUNT DOOKU (DARTH: TYRANUS, remember him? Sir Christopher Lee was in a Star War)
We Force Perspective to:

EXT. MUSTAFAR - NIGHT

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN fighting atop a crumbling bit of scaffolding or whatever was going on at that planet.
A slash of the blade towards Obi-Wan and we pulse again to:


INT. TATTOOINE HOUSE - DAY

Young Luke releases the blue blade before old Obi-Wan for the very first time.

INT. CLOUD CITY DUEL LOCATION - EVENING

Luke swings the blade towards DARTH VADER.

INT. CLOUD CITY DUEL FINAL LOCATION

Darth Vader slices Lukes hand off, and the saber falls.

EXT. BESPIN WALKWAY - EVENING

The saber hilt lands on some boxes and rolls to the floor.
A few blaster shots fly past and the hilt gets a little dusty.
A young woman, JANZA, 19, grabs a box and trips on the hilt, she dusts it off and grabs it, running away as footsteps approach.
A force Pulse again to:

INT. CLOUD CITY BAR - DAY

Janza brushes past a few Stormtroopers and hugs a young man, TWETIFANI, 23, placing the hilt in his belt holster.
The stormtroopers turn, and the force blasts us to:

EXT. BESPIN SPACEPORT - NIGHT

Twetifani and Janza rush towards a ship, Janza now clearly pregnant.
Some blaster shots fly by.
Twetifani takes the lightsaber out and beginsn deflecting shots.
Janza watches and cries as Twetifani hits a button on a ships ramp.
Twetifani is attacked by hundreds of shots, he cant deflect them all as the ship flies off.

The saber turns off and falls to the ground.
A force pulse as the hilt is covered with dust and mud and wear-and-tear until a figure brushes it off.
MAZ KANATA picks it up and looks at the hilt.

A FORCE PULSE: TO:

DARKNESS: Silence. And then a loud saber sound and a flash of light.

INT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK - DAY

Rey opens her eyes and we see the lightsaber in front of her, floating through the force, on and bright blue.
She looks over to Luke, a smile and surprise on her face.

REY: Did I...?
Luke has a small sense of astonishment across his beard.

LUKE: The crystal, you built it all without moving. Real connection.
Ive seen this raw strength once before, it didn't scare me enough then. It does now.

REY: I... saw my parents, my father, he died to save my mother, to save me.

LUKE: This saber only brings back painful memories.

REY: How can I use this weapon to protect?
Luke smiles.

LUKE: I can show you that.


EXT. IRISH PLANET - MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY

Rey stands where Luke was found, hilt in her hand.
Luke stands a distance away. R2D2 by his side. Cloak blowing in the wind.

LUKE: Close your eyes.

REY: What?
Luke closes his eyes.

LUKE: Close them, feel the force, find that sense.
Rey closes her eyes.

REY: Ok. How will I find it?
Luke picks up some stones, he looks at R2D2 and winks.

LUKE: Im sure youll feel it somehow.
Luke tosses a stone at Rey, it misses her by a fiftieth of a parsec.

REY: Ah.

LUKE: Yes?

REY: No.
Luke throws another stone, it hits Rey in the arm.

REY: Ow.

LUKE: Was that something?

REY: Im not sure.

LUKE: Well, keep feeling out.

Luke winds up his arm and throws a stone.
Rey waves the lightsaber in front of her head then turns it back off.
Theres no more stone in the air.

REY: I found it.

LUKE: Good. Keep your eyes closed, keep feeling it.
Luke looks around, he picks up a few more stones, then looks over and sees a large rock.
R2D2 Beep beep, whistle.
Luke looks at R2D2.

LUKE: Im not going to throw that.
R2D2 stares at Luke.

LUKE: Or force throw it.
R2D2 keeps Luke in check.

LUKE: Youve lost your sense of humor.
Rey swings the lightsaber again.
Luke turns around.

LUKE: What happened?
Rey opens her eyes.

REY: Im not sure.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Leia jolts out of her chair as we see engineers fiddling with desks and screens around her, using space screwdrivers
(Batteries sold separately).

Laura Dern looks over to Leia.

AMILYN: What is it?
Leia looks over to a gaggle of Resistance soldiers wearing headphones.

LEIA: Somethings coming.
Laura Dern steps over to Leias side.

AMILYN: Anything spotted?
People shake heads.
Laura Dern looks to Leia, with a face thats both sensitive and a little highfalutin, shes a talented actress and can pull this off without any Oscars to her name for some reason.

AMILYN: Until something pops on their radar, General, were a-ok. You can rest up if youre feeling a little out of place.

LEIA: Rest up?
Laura Dern offers a half-honest glance of care.

AMILYN: You seem a little distracted.
A couple of Resistance soldiers walk over to the two leaders, Laura Dern nods and steps back as they surround Leia.

LEIA: What are you doing?

AMILYN: Im relieving you of complete command, General Organa. Youre in no shape to serve the Resistance currently. Youre confined to your quarters, General.
Members of the Resistance look over. Nobody gets up.

LEIA: You cant...

Laura Dern leans in to Leias airspace.

AMILYN: (Whispering)
This isnt personal.
The soldiers walk Leia out of the room.
Laura Dern turns to face the eavesdropping Resistance members.

AMILYN: Right, back to the job at hand.
We close in on the broken communication visuals.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

And pull out on this side.
Resustus and his pilots move their big ship around, we see stars pivoting in the screen before them. No longer facing the remnants of Vangara.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Just take us back to base.
Poe hops into the bridge.

POE: Belay that order.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Dameron. Youre not leading any more troops.
Oof and Jing-Klatt walk in, Porkins Junior and Demadre Olglanthine follow suit with BB-8 to boot.

DEMADRE OLAGLANTHINE: Ill follow Poe to the ends of the universe.

JING-KLAT: Seconded.

OOF: Hear hear!

PORKINS JUNIOR: Also me.

BB8 Clinky noise waffle.
Resustus looks at the soldiers amassing on his bridge.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: What is this, mutiny?

POE: You almost killed every member of the Resistance, you spineless, thoughtless ignoramus.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: What?
The soldiers gather up around Poe, the pilots hang back, leaving Resustus in the middle of his own isolated bridge.

POE: These soldiers have no confidence in your leadership.
Resustus steps up to Poe.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Dont you do it Dameron, know your place.
Porkins slaps cuffs on Resusts.

PORKINS JUNIOR: His place is here. To the brig is yours.
Porkins pushes Resustus past Poe.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: When the comms come back, youre gonna be in serious trouble,

Dameron. They will line ALL OF YOU: up!
Soldiers push Resustus through the bridge and laugh him out of the room.
Everyone turns to Poe.

JING-KLAT: So what now, Captain?
Poe looks at the space in front of them.

POE: We have to bring the fight to them.
Wherever they are.
Some cheers, before people realise its pure rhetoric.
SUDDENLY out of Hyperspace the Millenium Falcon appears.

POE: Is that...?
Soldiers rush to the windshield.

OOF: The Millenium Falcon.

DEMADRE OLAGLANTHINE: Whos flying her?

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Finn and Rose sit in their seats.
Finn hits a button, throws on a headset.

FINN: This is the Millenium Falcon, come in Resistance Flagship.

POE: Finn?
Finns eyes light up, a smile across his face.

FINN: Poe?
Rose sees this reaction, thats it, she knows theres no chance for her.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

Poe and the others huddle by the communication console, Poe has a huge smile too.

POE: What are you doing in that?

FINN: Covert spy mission, like I do.

Poe laughs and shakes his head.

POE: Well you missed the battle.

FINN: I found the war.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP HANGAR - MOMENTS LATER

A door opens and Finn and Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang walk into the spaceship, where soldiers hang around (It is a Hang-ar)
Finn rushes to Poe and Rey-Leia hug it out.

FINN: Hey, this is Kelly. Shes a great pilot.

ROSE: Hi.

POE: Not as good as me though.

FINN: Last time I flew with you we crashed.
Poe and Finn lock eyes, wholl break first?
Poe smiles.

POE: I missed you. So, what do you got?

FINN: How does walking into the First Orders base and giving them an almighty thrashing sound?
Poe turns to the Resistance.

POE: We are the spark that will light the fire that will burn the First Order down.
Cheering and hand raising and huge uprising happens.


EXT. SPACE

From the Resistance Spaceship flies dozens, if not hundreds, of smaller ships, all forming up to head off.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Finn and Rose sit in their ship, they look over to a X-Wing.
Poe and BB-8 look over, smiling.
A musical sting as they Hyperspace out into nothing.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY

Rey opens her eyes, looks down, shes balancing on one foot atop a small pillar.
Luke, below, sits down, eating something green.
A few Porgs waddle over, aiming at the food.

LUKE: Are you tired yet?

REY: Why do I need to do this?
Luke flicks away a Porg.

LUKE: A jedi must understand the balance of the universe. How one tiny movement can affect everything.

REY: What kind of movement?
Luke throws his food at Rey, two Porgs flap wings and fly into Rey.
Shes flailing, wobbling.

REY: Youre mad.
Luke nods.
Rey hops on to her other foot and steadies.

LUKE: And youre following me. Whos truly mad?
Luke sits up and walks to the pillar.

LUKE: This is missing something.
Luke reveals his lightsaber hilt.

LUKE: Its easy to find balance when you see a strike coming.
Luke unsheathes the light blade.

LUKE: But when youre caught between a rock and a hard place.
Luke picks up a Porg in the other hand. This is getting dark.
Luke IS mad.

REY: Put that creature down.

LUKE: Make me, Rey.
Rey watches Luke slowly swing the blade about, the Porg looking a little scared but mostly gormless cute marketable.

LUKE: Ok then.
Luke swings the blade towards the Porg.
A CU on Lukes face.
On the Porgs face.
Then Rey, closing her eyes, wincing.
The blade swings to the Porg and stops JUST AT ITS FACE!
The blade moves away.
Luke watches one of his hands move from the other, he has no control.

LUKE: Yes.

Luke is lifted from the floor, the blade removed from his hand, and the Porg from the other.
They both fly towards Rey, she catches the hilt, turning the blade towards Luke, and grabs the Porg with her other arm.
Rey opens her eyes, still balanced on the rock, now face-toface with Luke, in mid-air.

LUKE: Theres a jedi.
Rey puts the blade away and pets the Porg.

REY: How do we get down?

LUKE: Gently.
Rey takes a step off the pillar, shes now floating.
The two begin to descend.
Luke smiles at Rey and takes out another piece of food, handing it to the Porg.

LUKE: Youve surprised me. Ive not seen this come so naturally to another person.
(Beat)
Well, one other.
Rey looks at Luke.

REY: Ren?

LUKE: Ben.

REY: Ren.

LUKE: Ben. With a B.

REY: Tall, angry, bad hair, all black?

LUKE: Thats my nephew youre talking about. And yes.

REY: Hes the worst.
Luke shakes his head.

LUKE: Hes bad at being bad. But what potential he had.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK

Luke and Rey, Porg in her hand, walk towards Lukes hideaway.

REY: What happened with Ren and you?
Luke reaches for the door of his shack then stops.

LUKE: You know. Dont make me say it.

REY: How do I know?
Luke looks to Rey.

LUKE: Come on, Im not that bad a teacher. Anymore. Look inwards.
Rey closes her eyes.

LUKE: See anything?
Rey shakes her head.
Luke sighs.

LUKE: Ok then.
Luke walks off, Rey opens her eyes and looks around.
Luke comes back.

LUKE: In your own time.
Luke wanders off once more, Rey in tow.


EXT. IRISH PLANET - WOODS - EVENING

The sun begins to set as Luke and Rey wander through the woods.

REY: You can just tell me if its too much trouble.

LUKE: Nice try, Im never talking about him again. Up ahead.
We look forward with Rey, and through the trees we see a large collection of rocks.

REY: Is this the original temple?

LUKE: Temple?

EXT. IRISH PLANET - ROCK FORMATION

Luke and Rey stop walking at the foot of this grand rock formation.

REY: Wheres the entrance?

LUKE: To what?

REY: The jedi temple.
Luke shakes his head.

LUKE: Theres nothing here, Rey. No ancestry, no legacy, no war. Just me. And...
Luke closes his eyes.
The rocks shake and begin to rise, splitting into smaller rocks.
Underneath, a rusting X-Wing is revealed, hidden inside.
The rocks move to one side.
Luke begins to sweat, his nose runs blood.

REY: How long has this been here?
Luke drops to the ground, catching his breath.

LUKE: Since I landed.
(Beat)
Since I hid.
Rey walks over to the X-Wing.

REY: At least you didnt destroy it.
Luke gets to his feet.

LUKE: I couldnt, I tried, but I couldnt.
Rey reaches towards the fighter and places her hand on it.
She gasps.
We FORCE PULSE out of the shot in the fancy way we saw earlier (Remember that? Search for it, its been a fair few pages. How are you doing? Got a coffee, a nice snack, theres still a long way to go. Ill wait, go and prepare yourself, itd be a dick move to unpause until youre ready. Also, airplane mode, please, dont tweet, who cares if the country is collapsing, the story comes first. Ok, so, Force Pulse)

EXT. YAVIN IV - DAWN

Its early on Yavin IV, amidst a jungle temple we see Luke
(Slightly younger, beard styled, hip motherflipper) walking across a path as Kylo turns round, topless, gif-able here.
In the background, a few transport ships and Lukes X-Wing sit, ready to be used.

KYLO: Uncle?
Luke stops, looks to Kylo.

LUKE: Try again.

KYLO: Sorry, Master Skywalker.

Luke nods. Kylo throws on a shirt.

KYLO: How about a quick duel, before the younglings wake?
Luke turns away.

LUKE: Will you stop it, Ben.
Kylo picks up his heels and follows Luke, they wander through the entrance of the temple.

INT. YAVIN IV TEMPLE

KYLO: I cant train any further with these kids. You know Im stronger than them all, I just need an opponent, a sparring partner.
Luke stops Kylo, a sliver of light from outside giving their outlines a glow.

LUKE: What you need is focus. Patience.
Being a jedi isnt about being the strongest, attacking anything that moves.

KYLO: I know theres more to it, but without strength, how am I meant to fight?

LUKE: Youre not. Youre meant to defend.

KYLO: From what?

LUKE: Everything. This galaxy is full of danger, people need protection.
Kylo pushes Luke away, wandering into the darkness of the temple. His every movement echoes.

KYLO: I cant fight, I cant protect, I cant push myself to be what I know I can be, what you know I can be.

LUKE: What we both know you want to be.

KYLO: Is that it? You think Im going to become him?
Luke walks to Kylo.

LUKE: Its in our blood, Ben. Its all around our selves. We cant let the force take us, break us.
Kylo gets on his knees, closes his eyes.

LUKE: Ben?
Kylo slowly takes his lightsaber hilt out, amidst the darkness.

KYLO: All my mom ever talked about was how strong you were, the greatest hero of the galaxy. I only ever wanted to be like you.

LUKE: Until you discovered Vader.

KYLO: It all made sense, Master.
Kylo unfurls his blade, yellow and stable.

LUKE: Ben?

KYLO: You cant be at your strongest, at your best, without an enemy, to bring balance to your force.
Kylo stands.
Luke takes a step back.

LUKE: Dont do something foolish.

KYLO: Fight me, Master, take us both to our best.

Luke steps further back.

LUKE: Ben. You have a choice, you can stop this.
Kylo shakes his head.

KYLO: You wont let me be everything I can be, what kind of teacher are you?
Kylo swings his blade towards Luke. Luke pushes Kylo back with a force push.

LUKE: Caring, compassionate, Im family.

KYLO: So was he.
Kylo swings again, Luke smashes his green blade out and deflects Kylos swing.
Kylo stumbles back.

KYLO: Here we go.

LUKE: Dont get excited.
Kylo swings once more for Luke, Luke force-stops Kylo midswing.

LUKE: I am so disappointed in you.

KYLO: And I you, master.
Luke swings his blade into the hilt of Kylos, and shatters his lightsaber.
The power of the hit trembles the temple, some debris falls.

KYLO: My blade!

LUKE: A jedi doesnt need a weapon to be powerful.

KYLO: A real warrior would kill his enemies before they can kill him.
Luke pushes Kylo down.

LUKE: Anyone who kills another behind their back is weak.

KYLO: Then take me now, before I take you.

LUKE: This is not going to go the way you think.
Luke stares at Kylo.

LUKE: Your mother would be ashamed.
Luke walks away.

KYLO: Hey, Master, were not done here.

LUKE: I am.
Luke disappears into the glow of the outside.
Kylo lays on the ground of the temple, he laughs and cries in a weird double.
The temple begins to shake.

EXT. YAVIN IV

Luke walks away from the temple, towards a small camp, we see some young kids waking up, bowing to Luke.
A rock flies at Luke, hitting him in the head.
Luke turns around, as other kids look beyond Luke, faces dropping.
Kylo walks, dragging large rocks behind him with the force.
Behind him, the temple begins to collapse.

KYLO: Master Skywalker, youre right. I dont need a lightsaber to be strong.
Kylo begins throwing massive rocks towards Luke and the children.
Luke pushes them, but Kylo forces stronger and stronger.

LUKE: Stop it, right now.

KYLO: Make me.
Kylo throws more giant rocks, Luke falls to the ground as he pushes the rocks from the children.
Some of the children try to help push the rocks.
Lukes lightsaber begins to lift away from him.

LUKE: No.
It flies to Kylo.

KYLO: For all your talk, Master, its disappointing to see how strong you really are.
Luke falls as more rocks fly. Kylo pushes the rocks onto Luke and walks towards him, blade open.
The kids take out mini-blades, but Kylo pushes them back, and kneels over Lukes body, looking into Lukes eyes.

KYLO: Im not going to kill you, that would destroy my mom. But Im going to make you watch, as I bring true balance to the force, to the galaxy. As I show you my power.

LUKE: Dont you dare, dont you dare, you can stop this.

KYLO: Yes, but you cant, can you?

We close in on Luke, as he struggles with the rocks on him, looking on.
We hear children yell and scream, as blades whizz and smash.
And we FORCE PUSH out and back to...

EXT. IRISH PLANET - ROCK FORMATION - EVENING

Rey pulls herself away from the X-Wing.

REY: The children.
Luke nods.

LUKE: He wanted to be the last jedi.

REY: But he left you alive.

LUKE: I wasnt going to put up any more fight after that. He knew my weakness.

REY: Compassion.

LUKE: Nothing more dangerous in this world than someone who doesnt care. Who just wants anarchy.

REY: Then how can we stop him?
Luke looks around for a moment.

LUKE: He cares about one thing.

REY: Power?

LUKE: Balance. When he finds someone worthy, hell lose focus on everything else.

REY: Someone like you?

LUKE: Someone like you.
Rey shakes her head.

REY: No, Im not ready, Im not that strong.

LUKE: Maybe not, but youve got drive, spirit, a fight. Itll work in a pinch.

EXT. SPACE

Kylos ship flies through space, its a cool shot.

INT. KYLO'S SPACESHIP

Kylo sits, mask in hand, looking out to space.
LUKE (V.O.)
I hope.
Captain Phasma walks into view, behind Kylo.

PHASMA: Were approaching the source, shouldnt we deploy shields and stealth?
Kylo doesnt turn, keeps looking out.

KYLO: This is a fight, Captain, were not sneaking in from the back. Theres no honor in that.
Kylo puts his mask on.

PHASMA: Youre taking all of my men into an unwinnable battle.

KYLO: Were showing force, dominance, isnt that what you favor, Captain?

PHASMA: I know what youre up to here. Im not wasting my men on a personal vendetta.
Kylo turns.

KYLO: Vendetta?

PHASMA: Youre fooling nobody.
Kylo unfurls his blade.

KYLO: Im following my orders, and you should too.

PHASMA: If you intend to use that on me, I suggest you choose a more suitable environment.
Phasma reveals her phasma-stick.

KYLO: This isnt about her, Captain.

PHASMA: Whatever it is about, I refuse to give you my men.
Kylo swings for Phasma, Phasma knocks the blade away with a quick flick of her stick.

PHASMA: Any fool can strike...
Phasma flicks the stick again, the hilt falls from Kylos hand.

PHASMA: Vader knew that all too well.
Phasma takes Kylos mask off, hes red-faced and weeping.
Phasma shakes her head.

PHASMA: Im not stopping you following your orders. Good luck, Ren.
Phasma turns and walks out of the room.

Kylo grabs his hilt, unfurls his blade, and swings towards a wall, yelling.

INT. KYLO'S SPACESHIP - COCKPIT

Phasma walks over to the two pilots, as a few Stormtroopers stand around.

PHASMA: Change of plans, were heading back to Expraxis, theres plenty of work to do there.

A buzz on the ships computer, one of the pilots, HAGGATHEEDO: Manazapani, looks over.

HAGGATHEEDO: Someones launching a fighter.

PHASMA: Master Rens going on a mission, let him leave.
Haggatheedo clicks a button.

EXT. SPACE

Kylos ship opens up, and a small FIGHTER flies out of the ship.
Kylo piloting, fixes his mask in the cockpit.
The main ship flies into hyperspace.

EXT. SPACE PLATFORM

A CU of a ship coming to ground, steam and hydraulics spewing out against the blackness.
We pull out.

INT. STAR DESTROYER DOMHNALL'S RESIDENCE - SPACE NIGHT

This is actually an iron on a shirt, mechanical and shiplike. We make a joke out of this, because people said this happens on twitter.
Domhnall paces in his room.
A BEEP on an intercom.

PHASMA: General Domhnall, this is Captain Phasma, Ive escorted my men back to Expraxis to assist First Order infiltration.
Domhnall rushes to press an intercom button, hes sweating.

DOMHNALL: What happened to Ren?

PHASMA: Hes... doing what he does best.
Domhnall sweats harder.

DOMHNALL: Of course he is. Stooge.

INT. KYLO'S STARFIGHTER

Kylo sits in the cockpit, flying through space as the stars seem to move in the distance.
The Resistance planet comes closer in the distance, Kylo locks eyes with it and flicks a switch in the cockpit.
Two blue proton torpedoes fly from the fighter.

KYLO: Lets see how good your shields are.
Kylo flies towards the planet, blue streams from the torpedoes begin to evaporate as Kylos ship flies through them.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

A huge red alarm on a comms machine.

ERNESTO MAGDA VOCATCHA: Weve got incoming.
People begin to run around, some folk grab weapons, Laura Dern looks around.

AMILYN: Whats going on?

ERNESTO MAGDA VOCATCHA: Brace for impact.

AMILYN: From what?
Ernesto looks at the screen, he turns to Laura Dern and points at the red.

ERNESTO MAGDA VOCATCHA: At that!

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

We see a moment of serenity outside the base, nature rolling beyond the lens.
A flurry of blue hits, and shakes through, debris, crashing, light, noise, a cacophony, something a director would inform the special effects team to compose, that sounds great in Atmos too, guys.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

The room shakes, rubble falls from the ceiling.
Laura Dern stands as others fall to the ground.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - HALLWAY

Two troopers outside Leias room shudder, a few troops run past, they follow.
Leia pops her head out, then exits the room proper, with C3P0, Chewbacca and Chewbaccas Porg follow.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

We see troops amass amidst the destruction, rockets, snipers, all looking around.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Leia and gang rush into the room, Laura Dern looks over.

AMILYN: Get back to your quarters.
A bit of ceiling falls by Laura Derns head.

LEIA: What is going on here?

AMILYN: Everything is under control.
Ernesto stands up, dusts himself off, and looks at the comms screen.

ERNESTO MAGDA VOCATCHA: Erm, whats that?
A red blur flies across the screen, then back again, then bounces up and down.

AMILYN: Someones jamming our system.
Leia shakes for a moment.

LEIA: Thats no jammer.

CHEWBACCA: Raaaaawr.

C3PO: We appear to be being raided by a sith lord.
Chewbacca grabs his Porg and pets it.

CHEWBACCA: Raaaawr!
C3P0 pats Chewbacca gently.
Leia closes her eyes.

WE FORCE ZOOM: TO:

INT. KYLO'S STARFIGHTER

Kylo, determined, zooms towards the planet.
He suddenly slows, his mask slips off, and his eyes widen.

KYLO: No.
Kylo grabs his mask and puts it back on, the ship hurtles towards the planet.
As it closes in, we start to see the base from above.


EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

Rockets shoot up, snipers take aim, a lot of firing in one direction.

INT. KYLO'S STARFIGHTER

Kylo grabs the trigger on his driving stick.
ECU: Clutching the button, the trigger of the ship is pulled.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

From above a slew of large blaster fire crashes onto the resistance fighters, they fall and are flung around.
We look up.
Theres a puff of hydraulics from the starship and the ship comes crashing into the base.
Kylo lands, superhero landing, away from it, his mask nolonger on his face.
Kylo smiles.

WE FORCE PULL: TO:

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Leia opens her eyes.

LEIA: Hes outside.
Laura Dern pushes a button, lights flash and alarms blare.

AMILYN: To arms!

EXT. IRISH PLANET - LUKE'S SHACK

Luke and Rey wander towards Lukes shack.

LUKE: And you can use their bones for table legs too...
They stop and turn to one-another.

REY: I felt it.

LUKE: Go. Training is complete.

REY: Im not ready.

LUKE: The galaxy doesnt wait for you.
Trial by fire.
Rey shakes her head.
R2D2 pops out of the shack.

REY: You can do it. Youre the hero.

LUKE: Im not a hero, Im a coward.
Happily so.
R2D2 Beep beep whistle.

LUKE: I... I cant bare to see her in person.

REY: Youd put personal issues above restoring peace?

LUKE: Ive already restored peace. Ive done my part. Ive fought my wars.
Why cant someone else do it?

REY: Because youre the strongest.

LUKE: Not anymore.
(Beat)
Not anymore.
A moment of silence.

REY: Fine. Ill go and get myself killed and you can add me to your tormented memories in this isolated misery of a planet.
Rey barges past Luke.
R2D2 Beep beep.
R2D2 barges past as well.

LUKE: Hey artoo, you understand.
R2D2 Beep Whistle.

LUKE: I... I cant.
R2D2 wheels over to Luke, pulls back and kicks Lukes shin.

LUKE: Hey.
R2D2 Whistle.

LUKE: Really?
R2D2 nods on their legs.

LUKE: Im so gonna regret this.
Luke heads off to follow Rey, R2D2 trails.

EXT. IRISH PLANET - ROCK FORMATION

Rey cracks open the cockpit windscreen on the old X-Wing, dust flies around.
Luke wanders over, Rey looks to the old man.

LUKE: Dont say a word.
Rey hops into the front seat, Luke looks at Rey, then shakes his head and hops in the back.

R2D2 rolls on through and lifts into the droid space. The windshield comes back down.

LUKE: Its a little old, might be tough to control.

REY: I didnt start flying yesterday, let me handle this, you keep General Organa safe.
Luke closes his eyes, the X-Wing whirls and begins to lift up.

WE FORCE PULL: TO:

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Leia watches as all the troops run around.
Chewbacca places his hand on Leias shoulder, she looks over, and into Chewbaccas eyes.

LEIA: Luke!
Chewbacca smiles, then looks over to his other hand, where the Porg is sitting, squawking.
Chewbacca tosses the Porg away and moves in front of Leia.

EXT. SPACE

The Resistance armada flies together across space.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Finn looks over to Rose, who seems so into the flight, determined, strong.

FINN: Are you up for this?

ROSE: Ive trained my whole life for this moment.
Finn nods.

FINN: The First Order wont know what hit them.

POE: (Over speakers)
Falcon, were reading a large ship orbiting the planet.
Finn grabs his communicator.

FINN: Thats their destroyer, theyll be on high alert.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

Poe stands overlooking the navigation window.

POE: How do we play this, we cant hide our presence, theres too many.

FINN: A few ships slingshot around the planet, until were below radar sighting, and the rest can send the First Order a message.

POE: Saying what?

FINN: You can run...
Poe smiles.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

FINN: But you cant hide.
Rose smiles.

ROSE: Make them all pay.


EXT. SPACE

The Millenium Falcon and a few smaller starfighters exit the armada and move in an upward/left direction, as the rest continue on.

INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE

Domhnall walks up the bridge, watching as Expraxis sits before them all.

RAVIOLI MANCARATTCHI: General, were getting a call.
Domhnall lets out a sigh.

DOMHNALL: Cant have a minute to myself. Put it up.
On the window, the holo-visage of DJ appears.

DJ: General, glad I could catch you.

DOMHNALL: What can I do for you?
DJ smiles.

DJ: Well you could start by completing the deal, were three payments behind.
Domhnall shakes his head.

DOMHNALL: Payment arrives when your builders finish their job.
DJ nods.

DJ: That was the original deal, yes, but Im altering it. You want your precious hideaway, I want my planet not to be full of war. It, er, isnt a good look to the high rollers.
Domhnalls face gets red.

DOMHNALL: You shameless pig, youd value greed over the good of the galaxy?

DJ: Very much. What do I care the outcome of your war? It all comes down to credits in the end, so either pay up now or lose your barracks.
Domhnall clutches a desk, hard. Imprints hard.

DOMHNALL: My people are down there right now, whats stopping me giving the order to take you out completely?
DJ chuckles.

DJ: If you thought you could take this planet by force I wouldnt be here talking to you. So, lets just pay our debts and move on without any more fighting.
The holo-visage cuts out, the planet comes back into view.
Domhnalls lip quivers.

DOMHNALL: Can we just shoot that man?
Ravioli shakes his head.

RAVIOLI MANCARATTCHI: The last time someone took aim at him, their entire species was eradicated in minutes.

DOMHNALL: Then what good is the First Order?
People look down at their devices and screens.
Domhnall screams.

EXT. EXPRAXIS GARBAGE DUMP - NIGHT

The neon of the casino in the background becomes hidden as the Resistance ships make their descent, landing just right off the dump.

We see troops march out of the ships, Finn and Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang stand before them all, looking at their place of escape.

FINN: Ok folks, I think we made it pretty free and clear so far, lets keep it that way. Single file, silent as possible. Follow me.
Finn leads the troops up the chute that he and Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang fell out of earlier, this time armed with grappling devices.
They all sling up and out of shot.

INT. UNDERGROUND CAVERN HALLWAY

In the darkness, the troops head down the hallways of the cavern.
Finn looks to Rose.

FINN: (Hushed)
As soon as we secure this spot, you head out and find your sister.
Rose nods.

ROSE: Are you coming with me?
Finn shakes his head.

FINN: Theyll spot me a mile off.
Rose nods and hugs Finn.

ROSE: Thank you for all of this.
She kisses Finns cheek.

FINN: Oh, thats... too kind, thanks.
They continue moving down the hall, now its awkward.


INT. RESISTANCE BASE

Kylo walks down hallways, saber out, slicing up as troops come by the way.
He pushes folks with the force, pulls folk closer as he chops, and looks cool doing it.
Kylo stops at a door. Smoke billows from all places, and a laser shoots out.
Kylo stops the shot as the door begins to open.
Laura Dern heads out with two troopers. She aims her blaster at Kylo.

AMILYN: Pew, pew, pew!
Kylo spins his saber.

EXT. SPACE

The old X-Wing flies across space.
Luke sits in the back, eyes closed.

WE FORCE PULL: TO:

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Chewbacca grabs a staff from the back wall, Leia takes out a blaster.

LEIA: Hes right outside, I can feel him.

CHEWBACCA: Raaaawwwr!
Leia pats Chewbacca.

LEIA: You cant fight him, youre not strong enough.

CHEWBACCA: Rawr.
Chewbacca looks at Leia.

LEIA: How far away?
Theres a rumble and a troop flies across the room.

LEIA: Not close enough.
Chewbacca rushes towards the doorway as Kylo bursts through.

LEIA: Ben.
Kylo looks over to Leia.

KYLO: General.
Kylo looks over to Chewbacca.

KYLO: I remember you.
Kylo puts his hand up at Chewbacca, Chewbacca steps back but isnt pushed down.

EXT. SPACE

Luke in the back of the X-Wing shakes and shimmies.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Kylo looks at Chewbacca.

KYLO: You... youre not a wookie.
Chewbacca steps forward and swings his staff, Kylo dodges and swings back.

KYLO: Ok then.

INT. UNDERGROUND CAVERN

POV: We wander through the cavern, scuffling of trooper feet in the back sounds, its still dark.

JING-KLAT: Clear!

OOF: Clear!
Troops fill out the cavern, someone kindly drops a light source and we see the barracks still unfinished.
The POV points to the ledge into the casino, a grapple launches and pulls us over there, turning to look down on all the troops.
Soldiers planting explosives all over the walls.
Finn looks over to the camera from down there.

FINN: Good luck.
The camera turns and heads into the darkness.

INT. CASINO PERFORMANCE LOUNGE

Santha walks onto the stage, people clap and choke down drinks.

SANTHA: Thank you.
Music begins to play, its a little classical but also upbeat, not exactly jizz music.
Santha begins to sing, its going to be the theme to the next sequence because that always works out well, and The Fifth Element deserves to be directly referenced in a lesser franchise.

INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE

By a small section of slot machines and Sebulba-branded pinball machines, a flap of carpet opens and Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang looks around like shes a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle, before getting out of the floor and walking the casino.
She heads towards the performance lounge.

INT. CASINO PERFORMANCE LOUNGE

Rose looks to Santha and smiles, Santha looks over and smiles back.

Across the room we see Vancibald Grantuth watching the performance, his eyes follow the smile to Kelly Marie Tran From Comedy Bang Bang, conspicuous with a blaster on her person.
He begins to make his way across the room, when a tap on his shoulder.
Vancibald turns, Captain Phasma stands there.
Rose looks over and sees the movement, she ducks down.

PHASMA: You, pit boss, wheres the entrance?

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: What is wrong with you people?
Where is your discretion?

PHASMA: Ive got things to do, point and walk.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Follow me.
Vancibald walks out of the room and into the casino proper, Phasma follows.

INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE

Domhnall paces on the bridge, people work normally.

PHASMA: Make it quick General, Im heading down.

DOMHNALL: If you run into that rat casino boss, do me a favour and blast him away, talks are running down.

PHASMA: Sir?

DOMHNALL: Those are my orders, if it has to be, leave no-one alive.

RAVIOLI MANCARATTCHI: Sir, Im picking up large numbers of moving bogies, heading straight for us.

DOMHNALL: What now?

PHASMA: What?

DOMHNALL: Close her down, clear the channel.

INT. UNDERGROUND CAVERN

We see Resistance troops and Finn looking around as the last explosives are set, Finn looks up to the ledge, waiting.

EXT. SPACE

Rey flies the X-Wing, Luke shakes and suddenly stops, theres a small burst of force in the cockpit, and the ship jolts up and down.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Chewbacca and Kylo trade swipes with their weapons, the staff stopping the lightsabers dangerous blade, but dealing no real damage.

EXT. STAR DESTROYER

Orbiting Expraxis, the destroyer begins to turn as we see the armada heading towards it.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP BRIDGE

Poe hits a button and runs out of the bridge.

INT. RESISTANCE SPACESHIP HANGAR

Poe, BB8, Porkins Junior and many pilots head into their ships and leave the mothership.


INT. CASINO PERFORMANCE LOUNGE

Santha sings, Rose slowly rises again to watch, she beckons Santha over, but Santha is still singing.
Santha looks to a ceiling, with a cool sci-fi security camera.

INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE

Vancibald walks Phasma and a few stormtroopers across the casino floor and up some stairs.

INT. CASINO BOSS OFFICE

We see security feeds on a screen, including Santha singing, as a plush, gold-laden casino office reaches out, with privacy window overlooking the whole casino.
DJ sits there, lighting up a death stick.
Vancibald walks in, Phasma and the troopers follow.
The door closes, and two more heavies appear.

PHASMA: What is this?
DJ sits up and smiles.

DJ: Ah, so General Domhnall sent his right hand man, or woman. Are you collateral, or a different kind of payment?
Phasma walks towards Benecio, the heavies train on her.

PHASMA: This is hardly the welcome I was expecting, wheres our build?
DJ tuts.

DJ: You people, always with the business. Sit down, take a load off, have a deathstick.
Benecio opens a drawer, a trooper holds their blaster towards Benecio.

DJ: Hey, hey, woah.
Benecio slowly reveals a box of uncut, smoothly rolled deathsticks. He moves it towards Phasma.

DJ: Enjoy. You need to remove that monstrosity of a helmet first, of course. Lets see your pretty face.
Phasma picks up the box of deathsticks.

PHASMA: Flimsy.
She opens the box.

PHASMA: And counterfeit.
Benecio smiles.

DJ: What is real and fake but in the eye of the beholder?

PHASMA: I dont have time for games.
Benecio chuckles.

DJ: Then youre on the wrong planet.

INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE

The flap of floor opens again and Finn heads out, ducking and diving around the casino, until he reaches the performance lounge.

INT. CASINO PERFORMANCE LOUNGE

Finn sees Santha, Rose appears behind him, having hidden in a corner.

ROSE: What are you doing? Its not safe, you said.

FINN: Youre taking too long, we dont have much of a window. Grab your sister and run.
They look to Santha who finishes her song.

ROSE: Ok, now.

FINN: Good.
Rose rushes across the room as everyone claps.
Santha moves from the microphone, taking a drink from a cup.

SANTHA: Youre too kind.
Rose hops on the stage and grabs Santhas hand.

SANTHA: What are you doing?

ROSE: Come with us, its not safe.

SANTHA: What?
We look to the camera in the ceiling.

INT. CASINO BOSS OFFICE

On the screen we see some commotion on the stage.
DJ looks over.

DJ: Vance?
Vancibald nods.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: On it, boss.
Vancibald rushes out.
Phasma looks over, we see Finn on one of the screens too.

PHASMA: That imbecile.

DJ: Dont worry, we have ways of dealing with problems.

PHASMA: So do we.
Phasma nods, the troopers throw down blaster fire across the room.

INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE

Looking from the privacy glass above, we hear nothing and see minor flashes of light, as Vancibald rushes down some stairs and across the way.

INT. CASINO PERFORMANCE LOUNGE

Rose takes Santha off stage, Finn joins the rush out of the room.

INT. CASINO BOSS OFFICE

Phasma fires a few more rounds.

PHASMA: General, we have a problem, resistance fighters have infiltrated the planet.
Phasma leaves the room, the troopers follow.

EXT. STAR DESTROYER

We see the fleet of Resistance fighters swarming the destroyer, as First Order ships begin to rush out.

INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE

Domhnall is knocked to the side by a small explosion.

DOMHNALL: Why is everything happening at once? Who isnt doing their job properly?

Everyone on the bridge looks up to Domhnall.

DOMHNALL: What are you doing? Kill something!

EXT. STAR DESTROYER

We see X-Wings, Y-Wings and B-Wings flying around the bottom of the destroyer, taking out the shield functions.
TIE Fighters follow these ships and fire towards them.
Fighters dodge these blasts, and we see the TIE fighters accidentally help take out the shield generator.

INT. POE'S X-WING COCKPIT

Poe smiles.

POE: These first order pilots might as well be the resistance, lets go get em guys!
We hear whoops and hollers on the comms.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

The old X-Wing lands and the cockpit flies open.
Rey hops out of the ship, Luke sits, eyes closed.
Rey rushes towards the base.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - HALLWAY

Rey wanders through the halls, troops lay on the ground. We see Laura Derns body amidst the pile. It is mostly lit by the blaster shot still hovering in the air.

REY: Oh no.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Kylo slices towards Chewbacca, Leia locks an aim with her blaster.
Kylo looks over to Leia.

KYLO: Mom?
Leia lets out a gasp.

KYLO: Mom? What are you doing? Its me.

LEIA: No its not. This isnt my son.

KYLO: I am, youre my mom, youve always been my mom.
Leia shakes her head.

LEIA: My son wouldnt do this.
Leia shoots the blaster, Kylo puts his hand out, stopping the shot.

KYLO: You stupid old fool.
Kylo swipes the staff in half, Chewbacca tumbles to the ground.
Kylo takes a step towards Leia.

KYLO: You, Dad, Uncle Luke, all you ever wanted to do was stop me becoming who I was born to be.

LEIA: You were born to be loved, to be part of our family.

KYLO: I AM part of the family. I am my grandfathers grandson.
Leia shakes her head.

LEIA: He was lost, alone, led down a bad path. You, you had everything. You were meant to be good.

KYLO: I am good. Im better than good.
Im the best in the galaxy. I wish you believed in me.
Kylo walks closer, the blast moves with him.

LEIA: Is this what you wanted? Kill enough people and Id join you?
Kylo shakes his head.

KYLO: I dont want you to join me. Ive found my path now, mother. And theres no space for you.
Rey rushes in.

REY: Put her down.
Kylo stops and smiles.

KYLO: A wrinkle.
Kylo turns.

REY: Let the general go.
Rey takes out her blade.
Kylos eyes widen.

KYLO: You, I owe you a scar.
Kylo drops the blast, it breaks a wire and the lighting in the room flickers.
Rey swings her blade around a few times, Kylo tries to prepare.
Chewbacca suddenly lunges onto Kylo and knocks the blade from his hand.
Rey rushes to Leia.

LEIA: Rey?

REY: I found him, I found Luke. Hes here.

LEIA: Here?

REY: We need to get you out of here.
Leia looks over at Kylo, pushing Chewbacca off of him.

LEIA: What about...

REY: Ill deal with him.
Kylo force-grabs his blade.

KYLO: Ive had enough of you, you were never Dads favorite.
Kylo moves to swing at Chewbacca.
The blade stops.

LUKE: Han loved him more than you could ever know.
Luke walks into the room, hand holding up the blade, forcestyle.
C3PO is also in the background, hes just there.

KYLO: Uncle Luke?

LEIA: Luke?

CHEWBACCA: Raawr?
Luke pushes Kylo back.

REY: General, go, now.
Leia looks at Luke, and Kylo, her whole life, here.

Chewbacca picks up Leia, C3PO joins them, Rey holds the blade out to protect them.

LUKE: Is this all you ever want to do?
Kill?
Kylo tries to move.
Chewbacca shepherds Leia and C3PO out of the room.

KYLO: Just let me go, let me fulfill my destiny.

LUKE: Destiny? What do you know about destiny? You werent born to kill, you werent born to save, you were just born.
Luke forces Reys blade from her hand.

KYLO: What are you doing?

LUKE: And I wish you never were.

REY: Luke?
Luke swings the blade at Kylo.
Kylo smiles.
He breaks out of the hold and blocks Lukes swing.

LUKE: What?
Kylo swings again, Luke blocks it.

KYLO: You think you can hide away for decades and still be the strongest jedi?
Kylo hits a few times, Luke is knocked back. Rey looks for an entrance to the fight.

KYLO: All it took to finally make you fight me, as ever, is endangering people you love.
Kylo swings more at Luke, who blocks, defends.

KYLO: If you truly loved me, you would have brought me to my full potential.
Kylo swings further, Luke is struggling to defend.

KYLO: Now youre just a weak...
Swing

KYLO: Old...
Swing

KYLO: Man...
Swing!
The blade drops from Lukes graps.

REY: Luke.

KYLO: Youre no hero. Not anymore.
Kylo swings, Rey reaches out, Luke closes his eyes.

INT. UNDERGROUND CAVERN

Finn, Rose and Santha rush on down and hop off the ledge.
Troops catch them.

FINN: Set timers and lets go.
Troops rush to time the explosives, then a shot is fired and kills one of them.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Give me back my star.
Vancibald stands above all the troops, holding a blaster.
The troops all point blasters at this man.
Santha looks at Vancibald.

SANTHA: You promised me the galaxy.
Santha reaches for Roses blaster.

SANTHA: You said Id be the biggest star in the sky.
Santha aims at Vancibald.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: I still believe it, youre the best.

SANTHA: I am?
Santha gets a little shaky with her shot.

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Of course, I wanted everyone to hear you, to see you, I always do.
Santha puts her gun down.

SANTHA: Vance!

VANCIBALD GRANTUTH: Santha!
Santha leaves Roses grip and runs towards the ledge.
Vancibald is suddenly riddled with blaster fire.
His body flops down, to Santhas feet.
Phasma and the stormtroopers (Showing Tuesdays on the main stage) appear.

PHASMA: FN 2187, stop your foolishness at once.
Finn looks at Phasma, they have the lower hand.

FINN: Why dont you come down here and say that.

PHASMA: Shoot them all.
The troopers open fire, the Resistance fire back, theres a lot of lights flashing, running around.
We see troopers fall as Phasma leaps down, taking out her staff.
Finn shoots towards her, Phasma rushes to Finn.

PHASMA: You!
Santha stands, looking at Vancibalds body.
Rose scuttles around the ground and grabs a blaster, she grabs Santha and tries to escape, Santha shakes her sister off.

ROSE: What are you doing? Theres no time.

SANTHA: He gave me all I ever dreamt of in this galaxy.
Jing-Klat shoots some troopers, Oof scores a double headshot.

ROSE: Theres so many places you can perform in this galaxy.

SANTHA: Im going to be a fugitive.

ROSE: Well, its better than being dead.
(Beat)
Sorry.
Rose drags Santha away.


EXT. STAR DESTROYER

The armada breaks through the star destroyer, its pretty routine at this point.

INT. STAR DESTROYER HALLWAY

Domhnall rushes down the hallway, explosions rock the world, and crew fly around.
People stop to salute their General, rules are rules.

INT. STAR DESTROYER ESCAPE HATCHES

Domhnall rushes into an escape hatch and seals off the doorway.
He presses a button.

DOMHNALL: Attention everybody, this is your General wishing you good luck in the fight, Im leaving the ship in the steady hands of Ravioli Mancarattchi. Congratulations, General.
The hatch opens and Domhnall leaves the ship.

INT. STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE

Ravioli stands up, people look to him and clap.

FIRST ORDER BRIDGE SQUAD: Speech!

RAVIOLI MANCARATTCHI: Erm, Thank you?
The ship begins to explode.

INT. RESISTANCE BASE - BRIEFING ROOM

Rey looks horrified as Kylo approaches. Kylo tries to ignite his saber, its flickering.

KYLO: Take the blade. Come on. Fight me.
Rey looks over, Lukes body lay there. The hilt next to him.

KYLO: Fight me! Come on!
Rey doesnt look to Kylo.

KYLO: Fine.
Kylo knocks Rey back with a force push.

EXT. RESISTANCE BASE

Leia, C3PO, Chewbacca, holding his Porg again, and R2D2 head into a ship and it begins to leave the planets surface.

INT. RESISTANCE ESCAPE SHUTTLE

Leia looks out to the planet.
C3PO looks to her.

C3PO: Theyll be fine, General, Im sure of it.
R2D2 Beep beep whistle.

C3PO: Quite right, Artoo.
The shuttle continues its journey, Leia senses somethings amiss.

EXT. EXPRAXIS GARBAGE DUMP

Santha and Rose escape the dump and hop into the Millenium Falcon, the ship begins to lift off.

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Rose looks over to Santha, she smiles, Santha is in a state of shock. The world disappears into space.


INT. UNDERGROUND CAVERN

Troopers fall left and right, we see a clock ticking down on an explosive.

JING-KLAT: Time to make an exit!
Resistance forces barrage the last troopers as Phasma leaps onto Finn.

PHASMA: Why do you ruin everything you touch? We should have thrown you away at birth.
Finn kicks Phasma away.

FINN: Good news, Im not your problem anymore.
Finn joins up with some of the Resistance.

PHASMA: Where are you going?

FINN: Ive got a ship to catch, enjoy your new base. Whilst you can.
Oof shoots Phasma, she blocks it with the staff but it knocks her down.
Finn and the Resistance head away.
Phasma gets up and begins to chase.

EXT. EXPRAXIS SYSTEM

The Millenium Falcon escapes the planet as the Star Destroyer falls apart.
We see the armada forming up, the Falcon joins it.

EXT. EXPRAXIS GARBAGE DUMP

The Resistance forces escape and head into their ships, Finn looks around.

FINN: Whered they go?

Jing-Klat looks over to Finn.

JING-KLAT: Hey, come on, quick.
Finn heads into the ship, it begins to take off.
Phasma pops out and fires at the ships.

PHASMA: Drat.
A whistling sound grows louder, suddenly the Star Destroyer Escape Hatch lands.
Phasma aims her blaster at it.
The hatch pops and Domhnall steps out.

DOMHNALL: Captain?

PHASMA: General?

DOMHNALL: I was... about to oversee the base.

PHASMA: You missed the battle.

DOMHNALL: But we shall win the war.
Domhnall turns towards the casino.

INT. UNDERGROUND CAVERN

The timer clicks.
EXPLOSIONS!

INT. EXPRAXIS CASINO ROYALE

Explosions blow apart the casino, we see all our beloved aliens flying, they are high-rolling snobs anyway. Who cares about creatures?


EXT. EXPRAXIS GARBAGE DUMP

Phasma and Domhnall are blown back as the casino begins to collapse in front of them.

INT. POE'S X-WING COCKPIT

Poe sees the explosion from space.

POE: Woah, whats going on? Do we have visual on our guys?
The Falcon rises.

POE: Finn?

INT. MILLENIUM FALCON COCKPIT

Rose grabs the comms.

ROSE: Just me and my sister, sorry.

INT. POE'S X-WING COCKPIT#

Poe looks sad, he cares.

POE: Oh.

RESUSTUS WAGATITO: Im picking up our fighters exiting the planet.
Poes face gains hope.

POE: Patch me in.

JING-KLAT: This is Green three reporting.
Admiral Dameron, I have someone you might want to talk to.

FINN: Poe?
Poes eyes and face light up.

POE: Finn!

PORKINS JUNIOR: Hey Finn!

ROSE: Finn! Youre safe!

EXT. SPACE

We see the ships converging.

FINN: You thought some First Order fools could stop me?
FADE OUT.

BLACKNESS: Sounds are reverberating. Theres nothing to see but drips of water are heard, footsteps, murky voices.

INT. RED ROOM

Rey awakens, her hands and feet caught, no movement going on.
Kylo bows to Snoke, who sits on his throne.

SNOKE: Very good young padawan. You have rid this galaxy of its jedi problem forever.

KYLO: Master, is it possible for the sith to grow their power without jedi?

SNOKE: You talk of balance?

KYLO: Yes.

SNOKE: That is a jedi myth, they wish to create harmony in the universe, they do not wish for unlimited power to dominate. They always feared what they could not control.

KYLO: And what do you fear, Master Snoke?
Snoke smiles.

SNOKE: A sith fears nothing.
Snoke looks over to Rey.

SNOKE: Would you bring this jedi here for me to destroy? Finally, the last jedi shall be rid, by my hands?

REY: Let me go.

KYLO: I hoped to prove my worth to the sith, to you, in person.
Snoke nods.

SNOKE: Very well. Fulfill your destiny.
Snoke holds out his hand, revealing a new hilt. Kylo grabs the blade, unleashes it, there is no more flicker.

KYLO: You made this for me?

SNOKE: A true sith deserves a perfect weapon.
Kylo smiles.

KYLO: Then this first use shall be one for the ages.
Snoke nods.
Kylo turns to Rey.

REY: Let me go, let me go!
Reys shackles move a bit.

SNOKE: Shes powerful.
Kylo nods.

KYLO: More than you?
Snoke shakes his head.

SNOKE: There is none more powerful.
Kylo smiles, he throws his new lightsaber at Snoke, it stabs the man in the chest.

SNOKE: Ren, what....
Kylo walks over to Snoke.

KYLO: This old generation, they sit in power, force those with more strength, more thought, to do their bidding. And what do we get in return?
Kylo takes the blade out of Snoke.

SNOKE: Why?

KYLO: Ultimate power, it is a balancing act.
Kylo breaks Reys shackles, Rey looks over.
Snoke dies.

KYLO: Im through taking orders. Come with me, together we can restore the force in this galaxy.
Kylo takes out Lukes lightsaber, holding it out to Rey.
Rey looks at the hilt in shock.

THE END.

THE RISE OF SKYWALKER

Thousands of systems have felt theoppressive hands of the evil FIRST
ORDER. Construction on a massivefleet of star destroyers is nearingcompletion.
Once completed, this fleet known asTHE FINAL ORDER, will triple thearmada and bring a certain end tothe RESISTANCE, that is sodesperately fighting to restorefreedom, to the galaxy.
Meanwhile, a mysterious signal hassupreme leader KYLO REN embarkingon a search for its origins.
Wanting to destroy any threat tohis power....

A rich tapestry of stars, reaching beyond all we know.
Pan down, revealing THE GIANT ORBITAL RING around thecapital. Thousands of Resurgent-class Star Destroyer areprotruding from the side of it, in two rows. Millions ofworker droids and enormous amounts of machinery is movingaround the ships, working to finish the ships.
Hundreds of STAR DESTROYERS, are parked in orbit, watchingover the ring. Among those are the FINALIZER.
A SHARP POINT, glides into frame. A star destroyer, but not anormal one, an ECLIPSE-CLASS STAR DREADNOUGHT.
Kylo Rens UPSILON CLASS COMMAND SHUTTLE, drops out of thehangar bay on the bottom side of the massive ship. It'sengines SPRING to life, and it boosts towards the FINALIZER.

KYLO: Is it real?

KYLO REN, older than when we last saw him, a stubble andslight look of insanity covers him face, is standing next toCHANCELLOR HUX, who since we last saw him, has gained a new,more menacing attire.

HUX: I'm not sure. The signal doesoriginate from the unknown regions.

KYLO: Show it to me.
Hux nods quietly. He straightens his back.

HUX: Leave us.
All command crew on the bridge get up and leave. A swiftmotion, as if it was a computer.
Hux glances around the bridge. It's empty. He holds up aremote, and presses a button.
In front of Hux and Kylo, a large, very distorted hologram ofEMPEROR PALATINE appears. It's jittery and corrupted. It'shard to tell what it even is.

PALPATINE: The time has come. come toKorriban, and i will give you whatyou so desire. I can give you...
Unfathomable power...
The hologram jitters one last time, then fades into nothing.

HUX: Coordinates were attached to themessage.

KYLO: Prepare my ship. Alert the knights.
And have a squadron ofstormtroopers ready.
Kylo turns around and leaves the bridge. Hux follows him withhis eyes. The door shuts behind him.

HUX: As you wish...
(spitefully)
My lord...

The KNIFE-8, an elongated ship, two engines attached on theback, drops from the hangar-bay of The Finalizer. It'squickly followed by a Troop-transport and Kylo Ren's TIE
SILENCER.
The engines on the KNIFE-8 BURST TO LIFE! A thick smokeemitting from the engines. The troop transport activates, andthe Tie Silencer begins to ROAR! As the ship is propelledforward.

A data-bank is crudely hooked up to Kylos navcomputer. A stern looks is on his ungroomed face. He pulls a lever.
The sky turns into STREAKS! A FLASH! And...

The Three ships BOOST deep into hyperspace....

The three ships jump out of hyperspace. It's a WHIRLWIND ofred clouds. Giant asteroids and collapsed planets litter thesurroundings.
The ships fly towards a whirlwind, forming a tunnel throughthe dense nebula.
Once again, the ships BOOST TO HYPERSPACE!

The ships exit hyperspace. We're inside what looks like theatmosphere of a planet, rocky terrain is covered in livingtendrils, waving from side to side. Rocks are floating in theair, as if gravity doesn't exist here.
The ships make a course correction, and once again, with aBANG! They fly into hyperspace.

The three ships leave hyperspace. We're in orbit aroundKorriban. It's covered in orange clouds. We can barely seethe sandy red terrain below.
The ships start making their decent towards the surface.

An orange haze covers the shriveled, although living Forrest.
In the distance, large mountains reach towards the skies.
The three ships come ZOOMING above the Forrest. They slowdown. And start making their landing.
The ships slowly touch down. The ramp of the troop transportdrops, and 35 troopers walk out, guns raised.

Kylo presses a button. The hatch above him opens. Light flowsin, illuminating his face in an hazy orange light.
He reaches and pulls himself up to...

He gets up onto of the ship. And jumps down, landing on hisfeet. He bends down slightly in the fall.
He rises back up again. They're surrounded by scavengers.
Dressed is ragged clothes, and wearing masks, not unlike themasks of Tuscan Raiders.

HATTASKA: Natives.
His voice is obscured by a mask.
The KNIGHTS OF REN, Hattaska Ren, Vicrul Ren, Jaedek Ren,Orasha Ren, Rataka Ren and Ushara Ren have all exited theirship.

KYLO: I thought that there WERE nonatives on Korriban.

HATTASKA: Might be migrants from the unknownregions. They could have settleddown.
Kylo nods.

ORASHA: What should we do master?

Kylo remains silent. With the force, he reaches for thelightsaber attached to his waist. It FLIES INTO HIS HANDS!
The second he gets a proper grip on it, he IGNITES IT, andassumes an offensive stance.

HATTASKA: As you wish my lord.
Hattaska pulls out his DARKSABER, and ignites it as well. A blade of pure DARKNESS, ERUPTS! And pierces the air aroundit.
Rataka lifts his KYPER blaster, aiming at the enemy. UsharaIGNITES her lightsaber, a crimson blade ERUPTS from theemitter. Vicrul detaches her DOUBLE-BLADED LIGHTSABER fromher waistband, igniting two CRIMSON RED BLADES. Orasha flingsout his LONG BLADED AXE, a crimson blade ignites along thespine of the metal blade. Jaedek pulls out his lightsaber,and ignites the red blade.
All six stand next to Kylo. The stormtroopers have their gunsraised towards the locals. Ready to shoot.

KYLO: Kill them.
The soldiers OPEN FIRE! Hattaska leaps forward, and SLASHES a5.
The soldiers OPEN FIRE! Hattaska leaps forward, and SLASHES anative across the front. Kylo Ren RUN INTO BATTLE, as theother knights join as well.
The natives flee! Running for their lives. But they areHUNTING them.

KYLO: DESTROY... EVERYTHING...
His hair has become wet from sweat, as and dust has settledin the moisture.
The soldiers open fire, all over the Forrest. Kylo starts tocut down TREE AFTER TREE AFTER TREE! Bodies are EVERYWHERE.
Kylo turns towards a native, who's frozen by fear. He slowlysteps forwards. The native stumbles back. Kylo lifts his arm,and with the FORCE he grabs onto the poor native, who islifted off the ground.

KYLO: Where...
The natives eyes go WIDE. Kylo pulls the native closer. He'smere inches from it. His hand is almost touching their face.
The native starts to SPRAWL in pain. Panic sets in as Kylo'shand TIGHTENS.

KYLO: Where.
He repeats. More stern than last time.
His hand tightens even more, to a FIST. The violent sounds ofwarfare in the background wash out, as Kylo focuses on theindividual.
And then, Kylo releases the native, and IMPALES THEM with hislightsaber. He turns around, the once living forest is now adead, burned husk of what it was mere moments ago.

Kylo starts to walk in a straight line. The camera BOOMS UP,
above the forest, revealing not only the VIOLENCE of thebattle, but in the distance a giant PYRAMID, built halfwayinto a cliff-side.

The forest is BURNING, smoke is everywhere as Kylo exits thefog followed by his knights and soldiers.
They step towards the giant temple. Kylo motions for them tostop.

KYLO: Knights. You're coming with me.

HATTASKA: Yes master.
Kylo starts walking up steps of the giant temple, the Knightsfollow him.

They're halfway up, already having walked up THOUSANDS ofsteps. The burnt forest is far beneath the.

Kylo and the knights reach the top. It's a large flat area,that ends in a giant closed gate going into the mountain. Theoutline of a square is at the center of the area.
They all step onto the square. Kylo eyes the door and raiseshis hand. He REACHES with the force. The surroundings startto RUMBLE! The door starts to groan. And then...
The square that they're standing on, loosens! Dust FLIES outof the outline, as the small platform starts to movedownwards like an elevator.

The gigantic hall is empty, dark and disgusting. An orangelight illuminates a dark BLACK haze. Giant statues, resembleancient SITH figures, looming above EVERYTHING.
Kylo and the knights inspect the room as the platformcarefully lowers itself, not attached to anything.

PALPATINE: At last...

The voice is a rumble in the giant cave. Kylo IGNITES hislightsaber at the sound.
The platform reaches the bottom. Kylo and the Knights walkoff. They begin walking between the giant statues. Searching.

PALPATINE: Snoke has trained you well. All ofyou...

KYLO: I killed Snoke, as I'll kill you.

PALPATINE: Snoke was WEAK. Only coming out ofthe shadows once what he feared somuch was DEAD.

He called for me. From the unknownregions i heard him. Felt him...
Once i was dead, his desire torebuilt the EMPIRE that I created,was his ultimate downfall.
They walk up a flight of stairs. Tanks of a mysterious yellowliquid stand around. Lightning has started to appear.
Illuminating the room in short bursts of blue. A largemechanical arm reaches down to the ground.

PALPATINE: He didn't even notice mymanipulation. He was so stubbornthat he refused to even acknowledgethe thought of me having survived.
But alas... I silently guided himfrom the dark.

KYLO: Why shouldn't i kill you?

PALPATINE: Because of what i can give you.

KYLO: What could YOU give me?
Kylo and the knights have walked over to the mechanical arm,they're still standing some distance from it, but we can seesomething, a shadow hanging down from it.

PALPATINE: Everything. You could become...
A god...
KABOOM! A lighting bolt ILLUMINATES the area, and EMPEROR
PALPATINE comes to view.
Kylo is startled.

KYLO: What do you want?

PALPATINE: The girl...
BOOM! Another lighting bolt casts a BRIGHT light. Kylo andthe Knights form dark, contrasting silhouettes...
DISSOLVE TO:

The stars reach into infinity. BOOM! A ship exits hyperspace,and we hear the iconic sound of the MILLENNIUM FALCON as itflies into frame.
The ship flies downwards and the camera TILTS DOWN, revealingthe bright blue sphere that is ALYXYTH. It's covered inoceans, giant ice sheets and clouds.

The falcon comes SOARING down from the skies above. It comesclose to the ocean waters, but pulls up before it hits agiant wave, revealing a MASSIVE ice sheet covered in largehangar ports. The city of L'dash.

FINN and POE DAMERON are sitting in front of CHEWBACCA. Theholochess table is turned on.

POE: Are you really going to that?
Chewie grunts a little.

POE: Think real hard. Are you sure thatsa good idea?
Finn turns to him.

FINN: (whispering)
Don't give him good ideas.

POE: It's not me playing.
Chewie grunts again, and presses a button on his controls.
One of the figures on it walks over to another, it lifts alarge club, but...

POE: Whoa! Whoa! Calm down. I told youto not do that!
Chewie ROARS again.

FINN: I mean, he told you.
Chewie grunts in dissatisfaction.
The camera turns and BB-8 rolls in. He beeps something andPoe gets up.

POE: Alright. Let's get moving, we'realmost there.
He pats Chewie on the shoulder. He gets up and follows Poeand Finn.

Poe and Finn walk in, followed by Chewie. Finn sits down onthe third pilot seat, Chewie sits down in the co-pilot seatand Poe sits in the pilots seat.

POE: Quick mission.
Finn nods.

FINN: Get the information and leave.
Simple. What can go wrong?
Poe smiles. Chewie Protests in a howl. Poe turns to face him.

POE: When has it ever gone wrong?
Chewie replies with a grunt.

POE: That was an UNLUCKY shot. Okay?
It's not fair to compare them!
Chewie makes a sound resembling that off a laugh.

The falcon makes an approach to one of the hangar bays andflies into...

The falcon enters the hangar, and flies over hundreds ofpeople, walking about. There are shops set up everywhere.
Sellers are peddling their goods and customers are lookinghere and there.
In the crowd, we see someone clad in dark robes, wearing amask concealing their face.
They're following the Falcon as it passes by overhead.
The Falcon turns down a corridor and into...

The hangar is GIANT. Large support structures hold the blueice in place. Hundreds of small to mid-sized ships areparked. The falcon makes and approach, and falls to a softlanding.

Finn is gathering his things, preparing to exit the ship. Poeand Chewie are making their final preparations, setting theship to stand by mode.

POE: (to Chewie)
See? Nothing to worry about.
Chewie looks him dead the eyes. Then gives him a gentle push.
Poe smiles as his gets up.

The dark robed person from before, slowly approaches thefalcon, still keeping some distance. They stop about 20
meters away, and hides behind a large fuel tank.

Poe, Finn and Chewie walk down the ramp, followed by BB-8.

FINN: Where's our contact?

POE: Should be here.
Chewie roars.

POE: Whoa buddy! Calm down. It probablydoesn't mean anything.
He leans over to Finn.

POE: (to Finn, whispering)
Should we be worried?
Finn replies with a questioning "I don't know" look. At this,11.
Finn replies with a questioning "I don't know" look. At this,Poe bites his lips slightly.

KAY: Sorry I'm late.

They turn around and face a yellow, horned alien, about ahead taller than an average human.

FINN: You got it?

KAY: Right here.
He holds up a DATACABLE.

KAY: You know. It's pretty hard to findan adapter that fits to that relic.
He gestures to the falcon.

POE: It's old. And dirty. But I'll belying if i didn't say that its thefastest freighter I've ever flown.
Kay hands the cable to Chewie, who walks off screen.

KAY: Looks like it's gotten its fairshare of illegal mods.

POE: You can thank the original ownerfor that.

KAY: The war hero?

POE: Yeah.

KAY: It's a shame... Really...

WHAAAAAM! A FIRST ORDER TIE FIGHTER flies into frame, andSOARS towards L'dash. Then... ANOTHER... And ANOTHER... AndHUNDREDS OF TIE FIGHTERS ALL SOAR TOWARDS THE CITY!

The cable has been hooked up to the falcon. We can see chewiein the cockpit. Kay, Poe, Finn and BB-8 are standing by theramp of the ship.

POE: How did you get the message?

KAY: It was probably a leak. I was justthe one individual lucky enough tocatch it. To be honest, it could beanything. Most likely some uselessrestoration rapport.

POE: Anything helps in times like these.

FINN: You sure the First Order didn'ttrack you?
Kay makes a wide gesture with his arms.

KAY: 100 percento my friend.
In the distance we hear something... The roar of MEAN
ENGINES. They all hear it and start to listen.

POE: Maybe you should retract that laststatement.
Poe runs up to the Hangar entrance. The sound is even louder.

FINN: What is it?!
POE

FIRST ORDER! TIE FIGHTERS!
He RUNS back to the falcon.

FINN: Well, now we know that it'ssomething important!

POE: Tell chewie to start the engines.
Finn nods and runs inside.

POE: I can't thank you enough. I...

KAY: No. It's me who thanks. Go save thegalaxy...
Poe starts to run up the ramp.

KAY: Wait!
Poe turns around.

POE: What?

KAY: I almost forgot. The transmissionis encrypted. I didn't have time todecrypt it, but i made this key!
You need it if you want to accessthe contents of the message.
He hands a small data-drive to Poe.
STORMTROOPER

STOP RIGHT WHERE YOU ARE!
They're surrounded! Stormtroopers, guns raised.

STORMTROOPER COMMANDER: Hand that to me now.
He turns around.

STORMTROOPER COMMANDER: (to Troops)
Detain that ship. And have themcuffed.
A trooper walks over and cuffs them.

POE: Looks pretty bad.

KAY: This is all my fault. Sorry.

POE: Don't be.
WHOOSH! WHAM! Stormtroopers scream as they're cut down! Thedark robed figure from before is standing above the corpse of10 troopers, wielding a double-bladed blue lightsaber. Thefigure turns to Poe and pulls off the mask. It's REY.

POE: 
REY?
She smiles to him. Then storms towards them and the troopers.
She cuts them down left and right. With an elegant swing, shecuts off Poe and Kay's cuffs.
There are now HUNDREDS of troopers, it's OVERWHELMING! Onegrabs onto Kay and pulls him away. Poe runs towards him.
KAY

NO! Forget about me! Go! GO!
Poe stops reluctantly... Then turns around and jumps into thefalcon. The ramp lifts up and the ship slowly starts toLEVITATE.

Rey and Poe come running in. They continue down the hallwayinto...

Poe JUMPS in through the door! He lands on his pilot seat.
Finn is already sitting in the third pilots seat and Chewiein the co-pilots seat. Behind them Rey comes RUNNING in.

POE: You shouldn't be here Rey. You knowthat.
He pulls a lever and the engines ROAR to life.

REY: I could feel something was going togo wrong. I couldn't just let themcapture you.

POE: It's better than loosing you.
He blushes a tiny, almost unnoticeable bit.
Finn has just noticed Rey.

FINN: Rey?

REY: Hey.
She smiles.
Poe PUSHES the accelerator forwards. The engines ROAR as the15.
Poe PUSHES the accelerator forwards. The engines ROAR as theship SOARS FORWARDS!

The falcon BOOSTS away! Evading Tie Fighters and Laser-bolts.
The ship turn down a tight alleyway dug into the ice. Metalstructures hold the ice in place.
Tie Fighter PURSUE! The falcon evades them incredibly well.

Poe and Chewie are working hard to keep the ship in check.
Pressing buttons pulling levers and entering computercommands on the main console.

POE: (to Finn)
FINN! Man the quad laser!

FINN: You got it!
He run out of there down through...

Finn storms down the hallway, past the Main Hold and over tothe Quad laser. He jumps down the hatch into...

Finn gets seated and activates the systems. The computerSPRINGS TO LIFE and Finn gains control over the lasers. Heaims and SHOOTS DOWN FOUR FIGHTERS!

Poe is constantly readjusting the course of the ship tocompensate for the ever-changing corridor.

POE: How many on our tail!?
Rey reads a display.

POE: We need to get out of here now.
Chewie roars.

POE: Yeah, i know I've flown us into alabyrinth, but we need to get out!

The falcon turns down another corridor. Then another. Ittruly IS A LABYRINTH. The quad laser shoots down another twoTie Fighters.
The falcon turn AGAIN! But... It's A DEAD END!

Poe sees the end of the corridor far down. He knows that it'stoo late to turn around. He pushes the accelerator EVEN
FURTHER! The ship BOOSTS FORWARDS!
REY
IT'S A DEAD END!
POE

HOW THICK DO YOU THINK THAT ICE IS?
Rey looks confused and worried.

REY: You aren't going too...
Poe nods.
HE PULLS THE LEVER TO THE HYPERDRIVE! Stars turn to stripes!

REY: Poe! NO!

BOOM! THE ICE CRUMBLES AND OUT COMES A BRIGHT LINE OF LIGHT!
SOARING TOWARDS THE STARS!

Rey looks extremely angry.

REY: You could have killed us!

POE: Wouldn't be the first time.
He pulls the lever. The stripes once again appear as the ship17.
He pulls the lever. The stripes once again appear as the shipdecelerates. Exits hyperspace.

The falcon drops out among thousands of weird looking towerconstructions. The surface of the planet is covered is waterand salt, creating an incredibly reflective surface.
BOOM! 8 Tie Fighters exit hyperspace behind them and pursue!
The falcon flies up in a loop. Finn shots down three of them,as the falcon changes course and QUICKLY ACCELERATES throughthe tower constructions.

While evading fire and the towers, the falcons engines ROAR!
And the ship SOARS INTO HYPERSPACE!

Rey looks shocked.

REY: What was that? What are you doing?

POE: Lightspeed skipping.
She looks shocked at those words.

REY: You know the falcon can't do that.
The compressor will be overloaded!
In that moment, the ship EXITS LIGHTS RIGHT INTO A RED AND
DARK WORLD, covered in deadly black spikes.

REY: 
Poe! STOP!

He pulls the lever again, and the STAR TURN TO STRIPES!
Rey is PUSHED BACK, by the jump.

The falcon exits hyperspace. It's inside a green and hazyatmosphere, four Tie Fighters exit hyperspace as well. Finnshoots down two.
The falcon makes evasive maneuvers through the terrain.
Suddenly, a GIANT BEAST RISES FROM THE HAZE! Its gape is WIDE
OPEN the falcon makes an approach!

Poe pulls the LEVER!
POE

LAST JUMP!
Maybe forever.
The STARS TURN TO STRIPES!

The FALCON JUMPS INTO HYPERSPACE! RIGHT THROUGH THE BEAST!
The Tie Fighters CRASH INTO the now lifeless being.

The falcon soars through the vast, blue tunnel.

Rey looks startled.

REY: You could have killed us.

POE: There was no other options. Notwhen you were here.

REY: So you wanted to kill me?

POE: No! I wanted to get you out ofthere as quickly as possible.

REY: By killing me?

POE: Did we die?

REY: Very nearly did.
Poe gets up and walks towards her. They step inside...

Chewie walks past them. We can hear Chewie greeting Finn inthe background.

POE: You know how we work together. Youand I...
She blushes a little.

POE: Like clockwork. You haven'tforgotten Cordia Prime, have you?

REY: I haven't...
She smiles. Rey steps closer to Poe. They share eye contact.

REY: But...

POE: Please just give it a chance. Youwant it to happen. I want it tohappen...

REY: I can't... I'm sorry.
She looks genuinely torn up.
Poe nods. He takes a deep breath.

POE: I understand... It's not...

REY: ...The Jedi way...
He blushes.

POE: As long as you're happy. I'm happy.
She smiles. Then softly kisses him on the lips.

REY: Take that as a thank you. Therewon't be anymore where that camefrom.
Poe is stunned. He laughs.

POE: I... Uhm...
Then. The hyperdrive starts to beep. Poe turns around, thenback to Rey.

POE: We're here. I have to... You know.
She smiles.

REY: I know.

POE: Chewie!
We hear Chewie bark in the background, then he walks intoframe.

REY: Hey Chewie.
Chewie makes a sound that resembles laughter, then hugs Reyin his wide furry arms.
Chewie follows Poe into the cockpit, while Rey walks into...

Rey enters. Finn is on his knees loading the data-drive frombefore into BB-8.

FINN: You should be able to decrypt thedata now.
BB-8 chimes in happy sounds.

FINN: Don't worry. You won't shortcircuitBB-8 sounds suspicious, but drives off to the cockpit.
Finn looks up and makes eye-contact with Rey.

REY: Hey Finn.

FINN: What an entrance.

REY: (laughing)
Thanks.

FINN: Really, i should be the onethanking you.
(MORE)

FINN: (eyes the lightsaber)
You've really gotten used to thatthing.

REY: It's not too different from mystaff.

FINN: Looks good.

Poe and Chewie are sitting at the controls of the ship. BB-8
rolls in.

POE: Hey buddy! Finn gave you the drive,right?
BB-8 confirms this with three short beeps.

POE: Great. Just hook up to the maincomputer when you're ready.
Him and Chewie share a look, and they pull one lever each.
The infinite blue tunnels turns to white stripes and then...
BOOM! They're back in realspace. The bright orange spherethat is Bespin warps into frame.

POE: Home sweet home, if you can call itthat.

The falcon SOARS towards Bespin. Flames and smoke are comingoff the back end of it.

The smoke trail from the falcon has now become even moreapparent. The ships SOARS through the skies as smaller CloudCity fighters come to assist it. A hose on one of the shipsstarts to spray water on the fire.
The ships all make an approach to CLOUD CITY. A beautifuldisk floating mid-air. A city built on top. Its upside downspire reaches far down through the dense clouds.

Poe and Chewie are in half a panic. Alarms are beeping leftand right.
Chewie yells at Poe.
POE
YEAH, I KNOW! THE COMPRESSOR!
LISTEN, WE'RE ALMOST THERE, LET'S
JUST SEE IF WE CAN MAKE IT THE REST
OF THE WAY.
Chewie ROARS at Poe, he leans back in shock.

The falcon flies in between the towers and buildings, andfinally makes an approach on a landing platform. The enginesare struggling to keep the ship floating as it slowly reachesthe ground.
Then. The engines cut out. The ship falls the last two metersand crashes into the platform, one of the landing gearsbreak. The ship is leaning to one side, as the ramp slowlyfalls down. Chewie, Poe, Finn, Rey and BB-8 all walk out.
A crew rushes to their aid, and Poe runs to meet them.

POE: It's on fire! Very much on fire, alittle assistance would be greatlyappreciated! There's some valuabledata on board!
Crew members rush over to the falcon and get to work on it.
Hooking up a datacable and putting out the fires. Leia comesrushing to them. She approaches Rey.

LEIA: (to Rey)
I was worried sick.

REY: I'm sorry, but i felt thatsomething was going to happen.

LEIA: Why didn't you tell me?

REY: Because i was afraid you wouldn'tlet me go.
Leia hugs Rey.

LEIA: You wanted to be with Poe.
Rey blushes. FOCUS ON: Poe standing around talking to crewmembers. He looks over at Rey, they make eye contact. Hesmiles, and forgets about his conversation, the crew membersremind him and he snaps out of it.
FOCUS BACK ON: Leia and Rey.

LEIA: Why don't you give it a shot?

REY: I can't... It's not...

LEIA: Will you cut that out? Where didyou get that? Those dusty ancientbooks? Rey, you're not the last ofthe old Jedi, you're the first ofthe New. Luke created a path foryou to make something better. Fixthe shortcomings of what made theold Jedi Order so fragile.

REY: It's more than that... I...

LEIA: You can tell me Rey.

REY: I have to train.
Rey walks off. Leia looks after her, a worried expression onher face.
WIPE TO:

It's raining.
The once prestigious city has been perverted and corrupted.
Hulls of unfinished buildings lay scattered around thedisgusting city. The once grand REPUBLIC SENATE, has beendestroyed by age.
A spire takes center in the frame, it's the same medcenterwhere ANAKIN SKYWALKER was turned into DARTH VADER, but allwindows have been removed.
In the background, a giant open plaza connects to a web ofstreets and boulevards. In the middle, the giant FIRST ORDER
CAPITOL, TOWERS over the city.
It's a jacked structure, balancing like a spinning top.
A crowd is gathered around it, and in front of it, a largehologram of CHANCELLOR HUX, looms over the city. On thehologram, besides him, Kay is strung onto a laser-bladeguillotine.
A single medical shuttle, four troop-transports and Kylo RensUPSILON CLASS COMMAND SHUTTLE approach one of the fourlanding platforms on the medcenter.

HUX: Like a growing parasite, theloathsome rebellion that callsitself the RESISTANCE...

The remnants of KYLO RENS helmet are thrown of a blacksmithing table.

HUX: ...LEACHES off of the GALAXY! Andtoday, another conspirator standscharged with TREASON.
BESKAR, is melted. New pieces are forged. Old and New arewelded together, forming a new mask. One more evil andsinister than the last.

In front of a crowd of thousands, Hux stands in front of aholoprojector. In the background, we can see his hologramcast onto the nightsky as it towers over the terrified crowd.
Besides him, Kay is strapped to the guillotine.

HUX: ...The Resistance lives. Supportfor the Resistance lives. And aslong as this treachery is allowedto survive,THE FIRST ORDER WILL NOT
REST, Until order has beenrestored.
We can hear hammers and a blowtorch.

The helmet is glowing red. Four smiths are standing by it,striking it with their tools.
It's dipped in water. It boils instantly. CRYSTALLIZING THE
METAL.

HUX: For the resistance, the SUPREME
LEADER, is without remorse.
New glass is applied. It's cut with a laser device. Veins ofwhere the mask has been stitched together is visible.
It's handed to Kylo Ren, we cannot see his face. His puts itto his head.

Hux's hologram towers over the city. The ships makes theirfinal approach to the medcenter.

HUX: let this day remind us of theconsequences for defying ourSUPREME LEADER.
And the blade falls. It lobs off Kay's head like nothing, ithits the ground and the hologram jitters out of existence.
The crowd is audibly shook.

Through a veil of fog, Kylo walks down the ramp of hisshuttle. His new mask compliments his menacing stature. TheKnights of Ren closely follow him, as well as a large groupof stormtroopers.
As they walk past the medical shuttle, a large metalsarcophagus on a hover-lift is carried out by fourstormtroopers.
Kylo walks side by side with the sarcophagus. He puts a handon it, as they walk through the entrance.

The sarcophagus is hooked up to a mechanical arm, similar tothe one on Korriban. It lifts up, and it opens. Revealing thedeteriorating body of Palpatine.

KYLO: I have sent the knights to pursueRey. She will soon be in our grasp.

PALPATINE: Good.

KYLO: Give it to me. What you promised.

PALPATINE: I will give you the ability towield the power of Mortis.

KYLO: How do i get it?

PALPATINE: You must learn...
To take. The force exists asnourishment. And like in nature,those who take the most, become thestrongest.

KYLO: Teach meThe arm moves around Kylo. Palpatine is hovering a few feetabove the ground. By the only entrance to the sanctum a lonestormtrooper stands guard.

PALPATINE: Then kneel.
Kylo freezes. For a moments he stands still. Then... Hekneels.

PALPATINE: The rule of two has been restored.
Soon the sith will return, andnothing will stop it...
Rise.
Kylo rises. Palpatine raises his arm, and with the force hereaches out to the stormtrooper, who is lifted off theground. He's obviously confused.
Palpatine moves him in front of Kylo.

PALPATINE: Reach out.
Kylo raises his hand, and Palpatine lowers his. Thestormtrooper remains floating in the air.

PALPATINE: Yes...
Take it. Everything. Reach out andpull everything from him.

STORMTROOPER: (frightened)
What?
All sound disappears as Kylo's hand tightens. We can feel theroom vibrate. The stormtrooper TENSES UP! His arms are pullsback, and his chest is pulled forwards. Kylo's fingers becomelike long greedy spiders, we can almost see the veins throughhis leather gloves. Then...
THE CHEST PLATE RUPTURES! The armor cracks. The trooperscreams, but is silenced. Individual strands of lightningstrike from the tips of Kylo's fingers and then...
A horrible sound. All life is sucked out of the trooper. Likelong thin strands of heat, the life force transports itselfinto Kylo through his hand.
A piece of armor falls off the trooper. Revealing a shriveledup arm, bone and skin. Kylo's arms grow, as his musclesexpand and he becomes slightly, but noticeably bulky.
The final life force drains from the trooper, as kylo throwsthe corpse to the ground. The armor scatters around the flooras the body turns to dust.

PALPATINE: Most impressive. But you much tolearn, my young apprentice...
FOCUS ON: Kylo's head, specifically his helmet...

Behind him, the elevator door shuts as Kylo walks in. Hetakes off his helmet. He's sweaty, and exhausted. Conflictpaints his face. He grits his teeth.
The room is sparsely decorated. A bed, a meditation station,ancient sith artifacts, Darth Vader's burnt up helmet and alarge circular window.
Kylo walks up to the window and looks out over the city. A sprawling, yet strangely desolate cityscape.
We see Kylo from outside, through the window.

LUKE: This is what you get. A wholegalaxy for your taking. But what doyou have?

The camera moves to the side, revealing the apparition ofLUKE SKYWALKER.

KYLO: I have EVERYTHING.

LUKE: Yet nothing.
Your past torments you. You walk ona path forged by you and only YOU.
Yet you blame everyone else foryour misfortune.
Kylo turn around.

KYLO: I will become more powerful thanyou could ever dream of.

LUKE: You'll never be happy like thisBen.
Kylo ignites his lightsaber. HE SCREAMS! As he slashes atLuke. But LUKE GRABS IT! Holding it in his bare hand.

LUKE: You had EVERYTHING. But now you'velost it. And now... you havenothing.
Then, he vanishes. Become nothing but thin air. As if henever were there in the first place.
Kylo stands in silence. Holding his ignited lightsaber in onehand.
WIPE TO:

A large crowd is gathering. A console has been set up, andmultiple Resistance leaders are standing there.
Poe walks over to Leia.

POE: Where's Rey?

LEIA: I think she's training.

POE: As always.

LEIA: Go talk to her. I think she'sforgotten the meeting. I'llpostpone for a few minutes.

POE: Thanks.
He walks off.

Rey is violently fighting a wooden structure with a metalstaff. Arms rotate around it, as she defends herself.
Then, a metal sphere SHOOTS into the air, she throws away thestaff, and with the force, summons her lightsaber which sheignites! The sphere starts to shoot at her. She deflectsevery bolt, moving closer with each hit. Then finally...

LUKE: You've come far since we firstmet...

Rey turns around to see Luke Skywalker himself, casting ablue glow.

REY: Luke.

LUKE: My young apprentice.
Rey sits down on a bench. Luke's expression turns worried.

LUKE: Somethings is bothering you.

REY: It's nothing.

LUKE: What's wrong?

REY: I said it's nothing.
Luke laughs.

LUKE: I've watched you train for twoyears now. i know you Rey. And iknow when something is botheringyou.
Rey looks down, a look of shame on her face.

REY: Everyone must make sacrifices forthe greater good. It's the Jediway.

LUKE: You're in love.
Rey looks down again.

REY: I can't...

LUKE: Rey. That train of thought is whatled my father down the path tobecoming Darth Vader. You can'tcontinue the faults of old. Youhave to reforge the order. Make thewrongs right.
The door to the dojo slides open and Poe walks in.

POE: Hey.
Rey looks at Poe, then back at Luke. He's gone. Vanished.

REY: Hey.

POE: The briefing's now. So, the Generalsent me to get you.

REY: Okay, I'll be there in a moment.
She smiles and gets up. Poe looks to the remnants of thesphere.

POE: You're getting good.

REY: Thanks for noticing.

A crowd is gathered around the station. Poe, Finn, Leia, ROSE
TICO, LANDO CALRISSIAN and Rey are standing besides ahologram resembling Coruscant and the giant shipyard ringaround it, 8.000 ships protrude from it, like a punkbracelet.

POE: We've decoded the intel from theFirst Order. Our worst fears havebeen realized. The Final Order willbe launched in 16 hours, for thelargest assault the galaxy has everseen.
Chatter arises among the crowd.

COMMANDER YIAN: How many ships are there?

ROSE: 8.000.

ADMIRAL CHAWN: 8.000?! This is completely unheard!
They can't possibly have built sucha large fleet in just six months!

SNAP WEXLEY: If that fleet launches we're donefor. The Resistance can't possiblesurvive that.

LANDO: Hope will always survive. We'vealready proved that. We went from aship full of rebels to an army.
You've shown the galaxy that thereis something to fight for.

FINN: There has to be way to stop it. A weakness.

ROSE: There is. But you won't like it.
The hologram grows larger, we now see a section of the ring.
6 star destroyers lie on two parallel rows.

POE

The ships resources are supplied bya central fuel-line. Hit that andthe entire ship goes downLANDO: There has be a catch. There'salways a catch.

POE: It's the most heavily guarded thingI've seen in my life.
The hologram zooms in on the surface of the ring. It'scovered in hundreds of thousands of turbolasers.

ROSE: The ships will be launched insequences. Two at a time, every tenseconds. Each sequence lasts 60
seconds.
The hologram shows an animation of the ships launching.

POE: Once the sequence has started... Wehave 30 seconds before the fuelline is severed. Miss that shot,and it'll be like taking down aregular star destroyer.

ROSE: Near impossible.
(Beat)
Though we do have one advantage.
Once inside the Ring, you'd becompletely immune to lasers, asthey'd risk hitting each other.

SNAP WEXLEY: There's no way we'll will be ableto take down that fleet. We're abunch of outlaws from the outerrims.

KHANN BAHR: There has to be a way to get theCore worlds sympathy.

POE: I wish that was a option. But sincecommunication was cut between the50 largest core systems, we haven'tbeen able to establish contact withthem.
Chatter ERUPTS! Arguments are livid! People are angry,33.
Chatter ERUPTS! Arguments are livid! People are angry,blaming each other.

ADMIRAL STYXX: This was not what we were promisedwhen we signed up!

KAJA-IN: My people are starving! If i hadsurrendered to the First Order whenthey came to power, we would be ina FAR better position. Thanks toyou, we'll be destroyed when thiswar is lost.
Arguments continue. It's a heated discussion.

LEIA: Hope is all we have left. You'reletting it die. This is what theFirst Order wants. They want us tolose hope, because they know, thatthey are in control as long asthere's fear. We aren't the onesfearing them, they're the onesfearing us.
The crowd goes silent.
Suddenly... Every single transmitter in the room starts toCRACKLE. Every hologram starts to jitter. It's grows louder,as if a signal is adjusting itself for broadcast, then...
Every droid in the surrounding area, every speaker on thePLANET, is projecting the same thing, and everyone isstunned, frozen in time...
PALPATINE. A message...

PALPATINE: The day of victory grows nearer.
The work of decades is soon to befinished. The great error shall becorrected and REVENGE be dealt tothose who fought for it...
...Soon, the power of Mortis shallbe unleashed...
The holograms jitters out of existence.
Everyone is completely silent. An eerie atmosphere fills toroom.
FOCUS ON: Rey, Poe, Finn and Rose.

POE: No... That can't be.
He runs over to the briefing station. The hologram of theFinal Order has returned.

SNAP WEXLEY: What the hell was that?

POE: That...
Was Palpatine. He's back... I don'tknow how... But he's back...

LANDO: That's impossible. He died.

MON CALAMARIAN: The empire had access to technologylost to time. Cloning, for one...

ADMIRAL STYXX: Not to mention what kind of darkarts the Sith know...
The conversation continues in the background as we...
FOCUS ON: Leia looks shocked. She walks away from the heateddiscussion, holding a hand to her heart. Rey walks up to her,holding the ancient Jedi Texts.

REY: Leia.
She turns around and hugs her.

REY: I know how we communicate to thecore worlds.
Leia pulls away from Rey and looks surprised. Then smiles.

LEIA: Everything can help now.
She holds up the book. It shows the Jedi Temple on Coruscant.

REY: In ancient times, the Jedi built anemergency system, that would open acommunication path between everysystem in the core and mid rim.
It's a frequency generator drivenby a giant kyper-crystal, the FirstOrder can't possibly jam thatsignal.

LEIA: That's... Amazing Rey...
Rey's smile disappears.

REY: What's wrong?

LEIA: What he said. Mortis. Have youheard about it?

REY: Luke has mentioned it duringtraining. It's where the entireforce of the universe overlaps.
Into one spot.

LEIA: The Force itself. If Palpatine hasfound a way to harness that powerfor himself... He could destroy...

REY: We need to find Mortis. Before hecan unleash whatever he's planning.
Leia smiles, then holds her hand on Rey's cheek.

LEIA: Exactly.

REY: What about the assault?

LEIA: We'll take care of that. Right nowyou need to focus on findingMortis.
Leia turns around walks away. Towards Lando and the otherresistance leaders. Rey looks towards her friends, she makeseye-contact with Poe.
WIPE TO:

The KNIFE-8 bursts out of hyperspace in a violent BOOM! It'sengines flare up for a moment, before settling down tocruising mode.
The engines fire up slightly as the ship boosts towards thesurface of the desert planet.

It's a tight space. The knights are sitting in rows of three.
We can see flames and glowing hot plasma through the windowsof the cockpit. The ship is shaking and moaning, as if it'sabout to break apart.

The KNIFE-8, SOARS across the sky, leaving a noticeable trailof black smoke in the bright blue sky.
It passes outpost after outpost, in the far distance, we seethe wreckage of the humongous star destroyers, wasted away bytime.

A cloud of dust is kicked up when the KNIFE-8 makes a softlanding. The ramp lowers and the six knights step out of it.
Hattaska Ren eyes the wrecked AT-AT. It's been deserted for awhile now. Only a few traces of habitation are left.
Most supplies, like fuel and food are gone. Rey's speeder isnothing but a rusted wreck, lying in the sand, almost allparts stripped from it, and the X-Wing pilot helmet has beencompletely destroyed.
Hattaska steps forwards, looking from side to side. He eyesthe destruction.

HATTASKA: Search it.
The knights all walk towards the AT-AT. They rip everythingapart. With their left hands hovering only a few inches aboveevery surface, they search the wreck.

HATTASKA: You sense anything?

ORASHA: Something powerful has been livinghere.

HATTASKA: The girl.
FOCUS ON: Rey's Alliance Pilot Doll (Known as THE DOLL),
leaned up against the walls of the AT-AT.
Jaedek steps up to the doll, kneels down and picks it up.

JAEDEK: I found something.
Hattaska turns to him.

HATTASKA: Show me.

The camera hastily flies around the knights as they approachthe entrance to the outpost. Hattaska leads the way thoughthe gate.
Scrappers, scavangers and other visitors carefully eye theknights as they approach UNKAR PLUTTS base of operations.

A long line is formed in front of Unkar Plutts concessionstand. Scavengers of all sorts wait to have their materialsvalued.
The knights enter. The first few in line nervously eye them,and step back. The knights continue forwards, disturbing theline.
They reach the stand, and Unkar looks at them, a fire burningin his eyes.

UNKAR PLUTT: Who are you? And why are youdisturbing my line?

HATTASKA: Do you know anything about this.
Hattaska places the doll on the counter. Unkar picks it upand inspects it. A look of realization, spreads across hisface, as he picks up Hattaska by the collar.

UNKAR PLUTT: The girl. Where is she?
The knights assume an attack position, but Hattaska holds uphis hand, signaling for them to stand down.

HATTASKA: What do you know about her?

UNKAR PLUTT: I bought decades ago as a slave,took off two years ago with my mostpriced ship. The Millennium Falcon.
Now i ask again. Where is she?

HATTASKA: I was about to ask you the samequestion.
Unkar scoffs, then smiles.

UNKAR PLUTT: Since you seem to know her, i onlyfind it fair that you replace whatshe stole from me.
With his enormous head, he gestures towards his many securityguards watching the situation unfold from a far.

UNKAR PLUTT: Or do you want to deal with them.

HATTASKA: I only see it fit you put medown... If you want to live, thatis.
Unkar looks furious.

UNKAR PLUTT: And who might you be?

HATTASKA: Hattaska Ren.
Unkar freezes. Then slowly puts Hattaska down.

UNKAR PLUTT: Ren? As in Knights of Ren?

HATTASKA: You're correct.

With a hollow THUMB, Unkars severed head lands on the sandyground. In the background the knights walk into the KNIFE-8,
and with a ROAR! It takes off.

The KNIFE-8 SOARS through space. The engines rev up as itprepares for the hyperspace jump.

The Doll is floating above Vicrul's hand. Slowly turning andspinning.

HATTASKA: You sense anything?

VICRUL: I do.

HATTASKA: Lead us.

The KNIFE-8 jumps into hyperspace with a loud BOOM!
SMASH TO BLACK:

POE: Pasaana?

The sun casts a red glow on the city in the background. Rey,Poe, Rose, Finn and Chewbacca are standing, not too far awayfrom the Falcon.
Rey is holding one of the ancient Jedi Texts in her hands.

REY: Luke mentions it multiple times inhis old notes. Apparently he wassearching for Mortis too, but whilechasing an estranged Sith Assassin,the search went cold.

FINN: So we need to continue Luke's workand go to Pasaana where he left it.

REY: Exactly.
Rey turns to Poe.

REY: You coming?

POE: Wouldn't miss it.
She smiles.

The Falcon has been repaired, Chewie is helping Finn and Roseloading it with supplies for their mission.

LEIA: Good luck.

POE: Thanks.
Poe hugs Leia, as Rey walks up to them. Poe walks away.

POE: (to Rey)
I'll see you in the ship.
Leia turns to Rey.

LEIA: I'm counting on you. Good luck.
Rey tears up a bit.

REY: Thank you.
They hug, and Leia leans close to Rey's ear.

LEIA: And about Poe. I think you shouldgive it a shot.
Rey sighs.
REY

ILEIA: At least think about it.
Now go save the galaxy.
She walks away, leaving Rey to herself. Rey smiles and turnsto the Falcon. Poe and Finn are in full conversation,meanwhile Rose and Chewie are doing the final checks beforetakeoff.

Poe and Chewie are sitting in their respective seats. Poepulls levers, while Chewie flips buttons and switches.
Behind them, Rose, Finn, R2 and 3PO are standing, ready fortheir mission.

POE: Alright. We ready?

FINN: Ready.

ROSE: Ready.
Poe looks at Chewie, who growls softly.

REY: Ready.

Rey steps in followed by BB-8.

POE: Looks like everyone's here.
(to Chewie)
Let's get her off the ground.
Chewie growls in agreement. The engines GROW LOUD!

The Falcon lifts itself off the ground, and then...
SOARS TOWARDS THE STARS ABOVE!

The Falcon comes soaring though space, leaving the orangeBespin behind.

Poe turns a lever, as stars turn to stripes, and the Falconenters hyperspace.

The Falcon flies through the massive blue tunnel. STRIPES
APPEAR! As realspace emerges from the blue ocean.

Hyperspace disappears, and the yellow-ish Pasaana warps intoframe.

POE: Welcome to Pasaana.

FINN: Looks just like Jakku.

ROSE: You don't say?

The Falcon comes soaring down towards the nearest outpost. Itcomes in for a soft landing and the ramp lowers. Rey, Poe,Finn, Rose, Chewie, BB8, r2 and 3PO walk down the ramp. Inthe far distance we can hear music.

3PO: These are the exact coordinatesthat Master Luke left behind.

POE: Can anyone else hear that?
They looks around, searching for the source of the sound.

REY: I think it's coming from over thathill.
They all walk towards the hill and scale it. They reach thetop and overlook...

THE AKI AKI FESTIVAL: A colorful myriad of thousands, maybe even millions offoreign looking aliens. Tents and fires, camps and ships fillthe giant canyon.

POE: What is this?
3PO steps forwards.

3PO: It's the Aki Aki festival of theAncestors.

POE
(Sarcastic)
Well, that's lucky.

3PO: (not understanding hissarcasm)
Lucky indeed. The festival onlyoccurs once every 42 years!
Poe turns around, a half annoyed look on his face. 3PO looksconfused.

3PO: I'm terribly sorry, but did i missanything?
WIPE TO:

The Knife-8 speeds through hyperspace. It sounds differentthan other ships, instead of the soft hum, it's generating aloud roar, as if it's a race car.

Jaedek is a the controls of the ship. Vicrul is still holdingThe Doll with the force. Hattaska turns to her.

HATTASKA: What do you see?

VICRUL: We're there.
Like clockwork, Hattaska gestures to Jaedek. Stripes appearas Pasaana warps into view.

ORASHA: Pasaana.
FOCUS ON: Hattaska, silent, in deep thought.

The aliens are gleefully dancing along to the music.
Thousands dancing in synchronized movements. Rey walks, whilelooking in awe.

REY: I've never seen anything like this.

POE: Look out for any patrols! There arealways First Order scouts in largecrowds like these.
(to Chewie)
You too Chewie.
Chewie grunts apologetically and bows down.

REY: Look around for clues! Speak to thenatives if you have to!
Rey is stopped by a child.
PASAANA CHILD
EH CHUTA TOU?

REY: I'm sorry i don't speak yourlanguage.
3PO walks over.

3PO: She's asking where you're from.
Rey smiles and gets down on one knee, eye-level with the kid.

REY: I'm from Jakku.
3PO translates.
3PO
COU EI JAKKU SA.
The girl laughs and hands her an armband. She smiles and runsaway. Rey gets back up on her feet, a happy, yet torn look onher face.

POE: Rey! You coming?
Poe and the others are already a good distance away. Reyturns around and makes her way towards them.

REY: Yeah. Sorry, i was distracted!
WIPE TO:

In front of a large, circular mirror, Chancellor Huxoverlooks an assembly of various generals, leaders and otherpowerful First Order figures.

HUX: Resistance members, have beenspotted on Pasaana. Soon enoughthey'll be detained, and Palpatinewill have the girl as promised.
FARN CODOR, a Tarantula looking military leader, loudlyclears his throat.

FARN CODOR: Excuse me Chancellor, but may i askwhy this girl is so important?

HUX: Palpatine would not disclose this.
Farns fangs form a smile.

FARN CODOR: Why focus our attention andresources on something as trivialas this girl, when we don't evenknow the purpose of it. The FinalOrder will be launching tomorrow,would this not be a more pressingmatter?

HUX: Are you saying that the leader ofthe old Empire itself, is notimportant?

FARN CODOR: I'm saying that i even doubt hisexistence.
Every other member in the room looks shocked, except for Hux,who looks furious.

FARN CODOR: I believe it to simply be anattempt from you and the so called
"Supreme Leader" to stay incontrol. How should he havereturned?

HUX: I'd choose my words very carefullyif i were you. Farn. Our day oftriumph grows nearer.
(MORE)

HUX: Soon, we'll not only have anunmatched fleet, but our SupremeLeader will be more powerful thananyone that has ever lived in thisgalaxy. And to have you doubt us inthis time of triumph, is not only adisgrace, but treason.

FARN CODOR: Show me proof of Palpatinesexistence, and I'll believe you.
Does anyone even believe thisnonsense?
(to everyone in the room)
The Emperor is back? And he'schosen you
(points to Hux)
To rule the galaxy for him? I'msorry, but i find that very hard tobeliHis hands fly up to his throat as he starts to float abovethe floor. The camera moves, revealing Kylo, his left handraised.

KYLO: Do you find this hard to believe?

FARN CODOR: (throat shut)
No. i do not, my lord.
Kylo pushes him into the ground, with such force that he isbarely left standing.
Farn lifts his head in terror.

FARN CODOR: Long live the Supreme Leader.

KYLO: Too late.
All sound disapears. Farns eyes go wide. He starts to twitchand turn. He is lifted by the chest, hovering inches abovethe meeting table. He expels a roar of pure pain as all hislife-force is drained from him, in long thin lines that leaddirectly into Kylo's hand.
Farn becomes nothing but skin and bones, as Kylo drops him tothe ground. His body instantly turns to dust, leaving nothingbut his empty clothes.

The doors slide open and Chancellor Hux walks into hischamber. It luscious and luxurious. Thousands of ancientarifacts, a fountain, large beds, everything someone coulddream of.
Hux walks over to a glass case, standing on a pedestal infront of a large circular mirror, overlooking the city.
Inside the glass case, is a relic of old. A goldenlightsaber. He looks at it, lust in his eyes. He takes out acoin from his pocket and places it on a counter. He reachesout. But nothing happens.

KYLO: Are you done?

The camera whips around Hux, and with a gasp he turns around.
Kylo Ren is right behind him.

HUX: My lord. I was just...

KYLO: I don't care what you were doing.
I'm here to tell you that I'm goingto Pasaana to assist the knights.
Don't do anything stupid while I'mgone.
Kylo turns and walks away. Hux eyes him with spiteful,hateful and angry eyes.
WIPE TO:

The KNIFE-8 SOARS above the festival grounds, as the camerapans down to Rey, Finn, Poe, Rose, Chewie, 3PO, R2 and BB-8.
Poe looks around. Eye more and more Stormtroopers.

POE: Is it just me, or are there morestormtroopers than before?

ROSE: You think they've spotted us?

REY: Let's get moving before we findout.
They start moving through the crowd.

POE: Did anyone get anything from thelocals?

ROSE: The best lead me and Finn got wasto look in the sinking fields.
Apparently something happened outthere a few decades ago.

POE: We got the same answer.

REY: Then that's where we'll go.
The head off into the crowd, towards a lot of parkedspeeders. The camera moves back, revealing a stormtrooperstanding atop a cliff, observing the group.

STORMTROOPER: (into com device)
I've spotted the fugitives.

The KNIFE-8 touches down, and the ramp lowers. The knightsstep out. A group of troopers approach them.

STORMTROOPER: We've spotted the girl. She'saccompanied by three humans, threedroids and a Wookiee.

HATTASKA: Capture them. And bring them to us.

STORMTROOPER: As you wish.

Rey, Finn, Poe, Rose, Chewie, 3PO, R2 and BB-8 have finallyleft the crowd, and are approaching the ground speeders. Poenervously looks around.

FINN: There's an uncomfortable amount oftroopers. I think we might havebeen spotted.
A trooper turns around and makes eye contact with him. Inthat moment, a large alien wearing full body armor steps infront of them.

ALIEN GUARD: You're coming with me.
With the help from some other thugs, he shoves them into alarge transport that just rolled behind them. They fallthrough a pair of curtains and land in...

BB-8 is thrown through the drapes, and Poe just manages tocatch him.
The large alien walks in. Rey pulls out her lightsaber andignites it. Chewie ROARS and gets up in anger.

REY: Let us go this instant.

ALIEN GUARD: Whoa, whoa. Careful. I'm not tryingto harm you.
The aliens voice is completely different. He takes off hismask revealing...
LANDO CALRISSIAN

FINN: Lando!
He laughs a hearty laugh.

ROSE: What are you doing here?

LANDO: Leia was afraid something wouldhappen. So she sent me to eye youfrom a distance, and not a momenttoo late, i see.
He peaks through a draped window.

LANDO: You've already drawn quite a lot ofattention to yourselves.

POE: I don't get it. How did you gethere before us? I thought theMillennium Falcon was the fastestship?

LANDO: The Falcon may be the fastestfreighter, but the Lady Luck, ain'tno freighter.
Lando peeks out the window again.

LANDO: Looks like it's safe for you to getout again.

REY: Lando.

LANDO: I'm listening.

REY: We need to get out to the sinkingfields. Can you help us with that?
Lando smiles.

LANDO: Of course i can. Me and Han madequite a lot of contacts during thewar.
He pulls out a coin, and points through the window.
FOCUS ON: a small ship is parked by a tent.

LANDO: See that tent? My friend Corionlives there. Show him this coin andhe'll give you a ride.
Rey turns to Lando.

REY: Thanks.

LANDO: I'm the one thanking you. All ofyou.
He smiles, as they jump off.

They all run out of the transport, and SPEED towards thesmall tent. Stormtroopers instantly take notice, and startfiring.

ROSE: That escalated quickly!

FINN: We're almost there!
BOOOM! A missile strikes the tent, and it blows into amillion pieces, destroying the ship in the process.
POE

NO!
Poe desperately looks from side to side, and then spots thespeeders from before.

POE: This way!
They run in crossfire. Explosions everywhere. The festivalhas turned from glee, to terror.
Poe jumps onto the speeder, and as the others get on board,He bows down, cuts two wires, connect them and WROOOOOM! Theengines SPRING TO LIFE!

FINN: How do you know how to boost aspeeder?

POE: That's not important!

FINN: Not important? It just saved ourlives!
The speeder SPEEDS away at an incredible pace. In the skyTIE-Fighters approach, firing left and right.

From the far distance, the Knights of Ren observe the chase.

The speeder continues to fly ahead, while Chewie, Finn andRose shoot at their pursuers. Poe pilots and Rey pushes TIEFighters and enemy speeders away with the force.
Large patches of black sand, streaks across the landscape.

ROSE: I think we're in the sinkingfields!
A speeder explodes, sending the trooper riding it flying! Helands in the black sand, and suddenly starts to sink. Hepanics! Tries to get up, but is drowned in the black sand.
Two troopers on speeder-bikes, suddenly LAUNCH into the air,activating a jet-pack attached to their back. Poe looks toFinn.

POE: They fly? Since when did they fly?!

FINN: Since always!
BB-8 rolls around in confusion. He finds a large canister,punctures it, and hurls it at the stormtroopers. It EXPLODES

IN A CLOUD OF YELLOW!
It's complete chaos. A TIE-Fighter launches a missile. Reydoesn't deflect it in time and...
THE SPEEDER EXPLODES! Everyone is HURLED forwards and landsin a streak of the black sand.
Poe tries to get up.

POE

Everyone OK?
Finn moans.

FINN: Been better.
Poe's eyes go wide.
POE

THE SAND!
But it's too late. All of them starts to sink. Finndesperately tries to swim, Poe kicks and punches the sand allhe can. Rey tries to push the sand away with the force andRose and Chewie, squirm like fish caught on a line.

FINN: Rey! Before we die! THANK YOU! FOR
EVERYTHHe sinks.

ROSE/REY/POE

FINN!
Next Rose and Chewie sink.
ROSE
POE IChewie lets out a roar before being eaten by the sand. Poe isalmost fully submerged in the sand, he looks towards Rey.
POE
REY! THERE'S SOMETHING I NEED TO

TELL YOU!
She looks at him, almost fully drowned in sand.

POE: I LOVE YOAnd he's sinks fully. Rey quickly follows suit, tears runningdown her cheeks. The camera follows her down and...

Darkness. Complete and utter black, darkness.

POE

Where. Am I?
We hear a thumb, as if something hits the ground. We thenhear a loud CLUNK! As if someone hit their head against thecelling.

POE: 
OW!
Hello! Anyone there!?
We hear something. Cracking, running sand. We hear anotherthumb.

POE: Who's there!

FINN: Poe?!
POE
FINN! You're alive!

FINN: Where are we?

POE: No idea.
We hear a click, and then we see light. A faint blue streakof light illuminates the long tunnel. Poe is holding theflashlight.

FINN: Where are the others?

POE: No idea.
The celling cracks and crumbles, and Chewie falls down.
FINN/POE

CHEWIE!
The celling rumbles again, and Rose, 3PO, BB-8 and R2 fallfrom the skies above. The two small droids expel a stream ofbeeps and bloops.

3PO: Oh my.

ROSE: Where are we?

FINN: We've got no idea.

3PO: It seems that we're in some sort ofunderground cavern.

FINN: You don't say?
Finn looks at Poe.

FINN: Poe?

POE: Where's Rey?
The roof cracks as Rey falls down as the last one.

POE: REY!
REY

POE!
She runs into his arms.

POE: About what I said.

REY: We'll talk about that later. Wehave to get out of here first.
Poe smiles and nods.

POE: You're right.

ROSE: What do we do now?

POE: I say we follow these tunnels...
And hope they lead out.
He points with his dim flashlight. Rey ignites herlightsaber, dwarfing Poe's flashlight in luminosity. Shecloses her eyes. Then points backwards.

REY: This way.
They walk along the tunnel, debris, skeletons and otherscraps lay scattered along the floor.

3PO: My sensors indicate some sort ofwreckage up ahead.

POE: Great. Might lead us to a way out.
They continue, and turn down a corner into...

A cavern the size of small apartment. A speeders lies, sunkenhalfway into the floor. Rose walks over to the wreck andleans down.

ROSE: That's Imperial tech.
Right next to the speeder lies the withered up body ofsomeone unknown.

REY: The dark side is powerful in here.
She looks at the body.

REY: That has to be him. The SithAssassin. I can still feels hispresence.
Poe kneels on the floor, a dagger is protruding from theground.

POE: Check this out.

ROSE: A dagger?
Rey closes in on the dagger and inspects it. She reaches out,and as soon as her fingertips connect with the hilt...

A VISION: A ship leaving her on Jakku. A manbeing stabbed by a lightsaber. Herfighting Kylo Ren in the forest.
Snoke being cut in half. Kylo Renascending a throne, her dead bodyon the ground.
In a FLASH of light she snaps out of it and retreats.

REY: That dagger... It's... The darkside, it's too strong. Somethingterrible must have happened.
Poe pulls it out. It's inscribed in an ancient language.

POE: What language is that?

3PO: Master Poe, maybe i can be to someassistance.
Poe nods and hands the dagger to 3PO, who inspects it.

3PO: Oh my...
I'm afraid i cannot translate it.

POE: What? Why not?
3PO

POE: Sith?
Poe snatches the dagger from 3PO and inspects it.

POE: Holy hell. Sith.

ROSE: That thing is inscribed in sith?

POE: Whatever it is. I'm pretty surethis is what will lead us toMortis.

FINN: How do we even translate it?

POE: I might know someone.
Finn looks shocked.

FINN: You know someone who speaks SITH?!
Poe starts walking through the tunnel.

POE: It's an old friend.

ROSE: Who speaks sith?
Poe shrugs it off. He gestures to Rey.

POE: Lead the way.
She nods and continues down the tunnel.

On a cliff side, a large rock is pushed out of the way,revealing, Rey, Finn, Poe, Rose, Chewie, 3PO, R2 and BB-8.
They're shielding their eyes from the bright sun.

POE: Looks like we got out.
It the distance, atop another mountainous hill, a small shipstands abandoned and withered.

REY: I've seen that ship before.

FINN: What?

REY: My parents.

POE: What are you talking about?

REY: Thats the ship my parents leftwith, when they left me on Jakku.

FINN: Whatever is down there, It must beimportant.
The others nod and they head down the hill. They crossvalley, and reach the hill on-which the ship is parked.

POE: Chewie.
Chewie turns towards him.

POE: Can you stand as guard while wecheck out the ship?
Chewie growls.

POE: Great. Thanks.
He pats him on the shoulder. Others continue walking up thehill.

3PO: It appears that this ship has beenleft alone for years. Maybe weshouldn't go too close to it.
R2 beeps mockingly.

3PO: (offended)
Wha? I am not a coward, you halfwitted metal dome.
R2's beeps sounds like laughter.
Halfway up the hill, Rey stops. The others turn around.

FINN: What is it?
She looks over the large open field. Nothing but sand, andmountains in the far distance.

REY: I've got to go.

FINN: What? Why?

REY: I don't know. Check out the shipwhile I'm gone.
She jumps down, and slides down the side of the hill.

POE: Rey!
She doesn't hear him.

POE: Let's go.

The ramp is lowered with a creaking moan. Light flows in, andilluminates the room for the first time, in what seems likedecades. Poe, Rose, Finn, R2, 3PO and BB-8 step inside.

ROSE: What a lovely smell.

FINN: Looks like we were right. Thishasn't been used for at leasttwenty years.

3PO: I wonder if it even works at all.

POE: We can put that to a test.
He walks through the rubble and rubbish on the floor, towardsa door that leads into...

It's rusted and dusty. A disgusting sight to behold. Poeenters, both amazed and disgusted at the same time.
He's followed by Finn and Rose.
He sits down in the pilots seat and flips a switch. Nothinghappens.

POE: Nope. It's nonfunctionalThe engines ROAR to life.

POE: Will you look at that.

ROSE: What is Rey doing?
They look through the window and see... Rey standing in thedesert.

FINN: She's just standing there.
Then in the distance. A black dot.

POE: Whats that?
It's moving. Fast.

FINN: I don't like it. Yea. Me neither,let's get back to the Falcon.

Chewie is standing at the foot of the hill. He turns around,a gun is pointed right into his face.

STORMTROOPER: Stay right where you are.
Chewie sounds a quite whine.

CLOSE UP: Rey's eyes. She's breathing. Steady and stable. Inand Out. In and Out.
LUKE (V.O.)
We've passed on all we know.
She looks out at the vast sandy field. A small roar growslouder, just ever so slightly.
A small black dot is growing larger. Moving closer. The61.
A small black dot is growing larger. Moving closer. TheKNIFE-8.

The engines are deafening. The whole ship is shaking againstthe atmospheric drag. Jaedek hand are shaky, but stern on thecontrols of the ship. He pushes it further, accelerating itto even greater speeds.

Rey turns around. She closes her eyes shut and breathes infully. Then her eyes go wide open. She ignites herlightsaber.
LUKE (V.O.)
A thousand generations of Jedi livein you now.
And she starts running. Running, faster and faster. As fastas her legs can carry her. But not fast enough.
The KNIFE-8 comes closer. Closer. EVEN CLOSER! Like apredator chasing its prey. Directly behind her, not stoppingfor anything or anyone.
All sound fades as she jumps, time slows down. A powerful andelegant jump, in a perfect curve.
LUKE (V.O.)
Rey.
She extends the arm holding her lightsaber. It graces thepylon holding the left engine of the KNIFE-8.
It's not a lot. But it's enough. The engine starts to shakelose. Jaedek loses control. The ship starts to roll andshake. And then...
THE ENGINE BREAKS OFF! THE SHIP GOES BALLISTIC. TWISTING AND
TURNING IN THE AIR AS IT STRIKES THE GROUND. EXPLODING IN A HUGE FIREBALL! Yet, the fuselage of the ship is intact, theburning wreckage lays still in the sand.

FINN: REY!
She turns around and sees Finn standing atop the hill, wavinghis arms at her.

FINN: 
THEY GOT CHEWIE!
As he says this, a giant Troop Transport rises from behind62.
As he says this, a giant Troop Transport rises from behindthe large hill. Then the roar of a TIE-Fighter grows louder,and KYLO RENS TIE SILENCER comes speeding across thelandscape. It slows down and lands by the wreckage of theKNIFE-8.
Rey turns back to Troop Transport, and extends her arm,letting the force flow through her.
The transport stops dead in its track, as Rey desperatelytries to pull it closer to her. A hizzing sound. A hatchbeing opened. She turns and from within the smoke of theburning wreckage, comes Kylo Ren, followed by the sixknights.
He stops dead in his tracks and eyes the transport, then hereaches out. He's far stronger than Rey, pulling it towardshim, faster than Rey can manage. She gains her footing andstarts pulling with all her energy. She lets out a roar.
It's a ghastly sound. Thin strands of lightning explode fromher fingertips. They make contact with the ship and...

BOOOOOM!
It explodes.
REY
CHEWIE!

FINN

NO!
Finn watches the wreck as Kylo and his knights come closer toRey.
He turns around to the ship. Poe, Rose and the Droids haveexited it.

FINN: Chewie's dead.

ROSE: What?
Poe holds his mouth.

POE: Get back to the Falcon now. Getback to Bespin. I'll get Rey.

FINN: What? We can't leave you here.

POE: You wont. I'll go to Kijimi withRey. We can get the daggertranslated there.

FINN: And why can't we come.

ROSE: Because they need us.

The camera turns around, and so does Finn.

FINN: What?

ROSE: Leia told me about it. They have aplan to regain contact with theCore-worlds. And she wants us to doit.
Finn looks torn up. Then he nods.

FINN: Be fast.

POE: I will be.
They run off and Poe turns towards Rey.

POE: REY!

Kylo and the knights are still a few hundred yards away.
Their weapons are fully engaged and Kylo is leading the waywith his unstable plasma-blade.

POE: REY!
She turns around and looks up the hill. Poe is yelling ather.

POE: 
HURRY! WE'RE GOING NOW!
She looks back Kylo, the she LEAPS UP THE CLIFF! He grabsonto a rock and starts to climb.

She reaches the top, and Poe helps her.

POE: Come on!
He runs towards the ship.

REY: Where's the others?

POE: They went back to the Falcon.
She nods.

REY: Where're we headed?

POE: Kijimi.
They enter...

REY: Kijimi? Why?

POE: I know someone.
He runs into the cockpit.

The ship lifts off the ground, and SOARS right above Kylo andthe knights. It heads towards SPACE!

Rey enters the cockpit. Poe is in the pilot seat. He turns toRey.

POE: A Co-pilot would be greatlyappreciated.
Rey sits down besides him.

POE: Ready for lightspeed.

REY: Ready.
Poe pulls a lever, and STARS TURN TO STRIPES.

The SITH SHIP, jumps into hyperspace with a loud BANG!

Rey puts down her controls and turns to Poe.

REY: About what you said earlier.
Poe blushes.

POE: I'm sorry if i freaked you out. I thought we were going to die.

REY: I love you too.
He's frozen in shock. She leans in for a kiss, and kiss theydo. Poe lies down on his seat, but gets up shortly after. Hesmiles, then laughs.

POE

Rey... DoREY: The answer's yes.
She smiles. So does he. They both get up laughing. They kissagain.

REY: I'm sorry.
He hugs her.

POE: For what?

REY: If I ever hurt you.

POE: You're forgiven.
They kiss again.
Then. Something makes a sound. They freeze and look up. Poe66.
Then. Something makes a sound. They freeze and look up. Poeis still holding Rey in his arms.

POE: Hello?
Rey pulls out her lightsaber and ignites it.

REY: Show yourself!
A few beeps and bleeps. Then BB-8 rolls out of a pile ofrubble.
POE
BB-8?
(smiling)
BB-8 what're you doing here?
The droid beeps a confusing mess of bleeps and bloops. Poeand Rey seem to fully understand it.

POE: Of course i'm not leaving youbehind. But i thought you'd gonewith Rose and Finn.
BB-8 beeps in denial.

REY: Well... It's good to have you onboard.

The SITH SHIP, soars through hyperspace.
WIPE TO:

Kylos chamber is large and circular. Like his chamber back onCoruscant, it's sparsely decorated, and only has the bareessentials. Kylo is standing in front of a hologram ofChancellor Hux.

KYLO: Hux.

HUX: Yes my lord.

KYLO: Have Palpatine transported to myship. I seek to finish my traininghere.

HUX: Not back on Coruscant?

KYLO: No.

HUX: As you wish my lord.
The hologram disapears. Six new, smaller holograms appear,The Knights of Ren.

KYLO: Find the girl as soon as possible.
Lead me to her.

HATTASKA: It will be done my lord.
The holograms glitch out of existence. Kylo walks away,towards door.
WIPE TO:

The Falcon soars towards Cloud City. The sun is rising in thehorizon, and the first rays of daylight are shinning acrossthe vast ocean of gas.

The Falcon soars through buildings, spires and towers.
They're preparing for war. Fighters, X-Wings, Y-Wings, BWings, Mon Calamari transports and floating above the city,three giant Mon Calamari cruisers. The Solo, The Holdo andthe Ackbar, all three being loaded with supplies andammunition for the mission, a constant line of smaller shipsflying in and out of it.

The Falcon makes an approach, and (Unlike the last time)
touches down softly. The ramp lowers, and Finn, Rose, R2 and3PO step out. Leia approaches them.

LEIA: Where are the others.

FINN: Chewie's dead.
Leia steps back in shock. A look of grief strikes her face. A few individual tears fall down her cheeks.

LEIA: The others?

ROSE: They left for Kijimi. They're stilllooking for Mortis.

LEIA: Then there's still hope.

FINN: What about the assault?

LEIA: It's coming along. But we need you.

FINN: Rose told me about it.

LANDO: Dead?
Finn nods in sorrow.

FINN: We saw the transport crash. There'sno way he could have survived that.
Lando supports himself on a pillar. It looks as if he's aboutto faint.

LANDO: First Han, then Luke. Now Chewie.
Why does this war have to take somany of my friends.

ROSE: It doesn't have to take any more.
We can still end it.

LANDO: And we need you to do it.
(turns to Leia)
Show it to them.
Leia holds out the ancient book that Rey showed her.
She opens to the page about the beacon.

LEIA: Beneath the Jedi Temple onCoruscant, there's an ancientbeacon built to create acommunications link between thecore worlds, to call them to war.
You need to go to the room of theold Jedi Council, and activate thatbeacon.

FINN: And how do we do that?
Leia hands him the book.

LEIA: With these.
He takes out a small, leather-bound package.

FINN: What is it?

LEIA: Kyper crystals.

Leia hands to package toROSE: Let's go.
Finn turns to Lando.

FINN: How will we get there?

LANDO: For this occupation. I'll be morethan happy to give you the LadyLuck.
Rose's eyes meet Finns. They're ready.

The Lady Luck shoots itself across the big black, starcovered canvass. The engines REV UP! And with a bang, it'sgone.

It's a Grey and gloomy day. It's raining and thousands ofpoor looking peasants are wandering the once grand streets.
The city is disgusting. Trash everywhere, run-down buildingsand the hulls of scrapped spaceships.
The Lady Luck, a sleek, beautiful and white ship, carefullyglides through the air. It continues flying along the street.
The camera BOOMS upwards, revealing...

The Lady luck touches down on the square. 3PO and R2 stepout. It lifts off again, and continues towards the Temple.
3PO watches the ship as it leaves him and his companionalone. He holds up a Com Device.
3PO
(Into Com Device)
Tell me again why you had to dropus off?

FINN: We need to activate the mainconsole for the beacon. R2 is theonly one who can do it, and youhave to protect him.

The Com Device crackles, and shuts off. 3PO turns to R2.

3PO: Why do i always have to be the oneprotecting you.
He looks at the towering building.

3PO: I have a very bad feeling aboutthis R2.

The SITH SHIP, drops out of hyperspace and flies down,towards the surface of the planet, a frosty, blue ball,covered in large mountains and oceans.

POE: Welcome to Kijimi.
Poe hits and flips switches and buttons. They're entering theatmosphere.

REY: A Star Destroyer.
A large Star Destroyer is parked in orbit.

POE: Nothing unusual in the Mid Rim.

REY: Who're we even meeting with?

POE: Zorri Bliss. An old friend of mine.

REY: Who speaks sith?

POE: Don't ask me why. She never toldme.
WIPE TO:

The KNIFE-9, shaped like the head of an arrow, SOARS throughhyperspace.

As always, Jaedek is sitting behind the controls of the ship.
The knights are sitting in two rows, one of four and one oftwo. Vicrul is holding The Doll.

HATTASKA: Sister. Where to?
The doll starts to float, as Vicrul reaches out with theforce.

VICRUL: Kijimi.

HATTASKA: (to Jaedek)
Set course our course to Kijimi.
Hattaska enters a code into a keypad. A hologram of Kylo Ren72.
Hattaska enters a code into a keypad. A hologram of Kylo Renappears.

HATTASKA: My lord. The girl has been located.
She's on the Mid Rim planet,Kijimi.

KYLO: Find her. I'll be with you soon.

HATTASKA: Yes Master.
The hologram cuts out.

The ship drops out of hyperspace, as the blue tunnel isreplaced with stripes. Then...

The KNIFE-9 continues down towards the surface.

BOOM!
The ECLIPSE Star Destroyer Exits hyperspace not too far awayfrom the KNIFE-9.

Hattaska observes the giant Star Destroyer.

HATTASKA: Master.

Poe and Rey are hiding behind a wall, BB-8 rolls over tothem. Poe peaks over it, sees a sea of people and shops ofall sizes, selling spices, tea and other goods. Stormtroopersare everywhere.

POE: Looks like they expected us.
Come on. I know a back-door.
BB-8 beeps in protest.
Poe jumps up the wall of a house and pulls himself up to a73.
Poe jumps up the wall of a house and pulls himself up to aflight of stairs. Rey lifts a very talkative BB-8 off theground and hands him to Poe. Poe bends down and helps Rey.
They walk up the stairs, and across a small pathway builtbetween the houses.
They reach a hole in the ground, obviously caused by erosion.
Under it, a large cavity beneath the houses, obviously notmeant for humans.

POE: You go first? I go first?
Rey looks at the hole. Then at Poe. BB-8 glances up at thetwo of them.

REY: Lead the way.

BB-8 dumps down the hole, Rey and Poe quickly follow.
Animals obviously live here. Mold is growing on the oldstones. Water is dripping from the surface, and trash ispiling up.

STORMTROOPER: (in the distance)

STOP RIGHT THERE!

POE: We don't want that to happen to us.
They continue down the cavity. BB-8 beeps affirmative.

REY: Are we there yet?

POE: It's right over there.
He points forwards, another hole in the celling, snow isfalling from it.

Poe pulls himself up, Rey carefully lifts BB-8 to thesurface, and crawls up herself.

POE: See. That wasn't too bad.
He turns around. A small door leads inside the stone house.
Poe steps forwards, but a gun is placed on the back of hishead.

ZORRI: Stop right there partner.

The camera WHIPS around, revealing ZORRI BLISS, wearing amask and cape. Rey lifts her lightsaber, she's about toignite it, but Poe holds a hand up, signaling for her to not.
BB-8 makes an "oh no" sound.

POE: Zorri.

ZORRI: You got a lot of nerve coming backhere. After what you did.

POE: Listen Zorri. I know I wronged youin the past, but right now, thewhole Galaxy is counting on me. Andi need you.

ZORRI: For what?
Poe shows her the dagger. She takes it and inspects it.

ZORRI: Who are you hanging out with thatspeaks Sith?

POE: You for one.

ZORRI: We don't hang anymore. Forget?

POE: Hoped you'd help me translate it?
Zorri thinks for a few seconds.

ZORRI: Does it have anything to do withthat message?

POE: Message?

ZORRI: Palpatine. It happened last night,you see it?

POE: Dang. He really broadcast it to theentire galaxy.

ZORRI: So it's about that.
She hands the dagger back to Poe.

ZORRI: And what importance does this have?

POE: We have no idea.
Zorri lowers her blaster. She looks from side to side.

ZORRI: Get in. Quick.
They do. Followed by BB-8, they walk through the door andinto...

They enter the room. It's the back-room of a shop. Supplieslie scattered about. Zorri leads them through a door, andinto the main room. She walks over to the door and locks it.
BB-8's head swings from side to side, scanning the room.

ZORRI: Give me the dagger again.
Poe hands it to her.

ZORRI: (to someone not present)

BABU TOR EYK! VULEYTI OPT BUEA!
From another room, it sounds as if things are falling andgetting destroyed. Then a tiny alien, no larger than a 5-year-old BABU FRICK, comes walking in with a glass lens. BB-8
rolls over to him, beeping curiously.
BABU FRICK
(Annoyed)
Tor Allu Nehita!
(English Sub)
Always when i'm sleeping.
He hands the lens to Zorri. She takes it and walks over to achair where a magnifier is standing. She attaches the lens,and secures the dagger on a stand.

ZORRI: Lets see what we've got.
She looks through the glass. Reads the sith.

ZORRI: The Emperors way-finder is in theImperial vault. At DELTA 936 on amoon in the Endor system. Only thisblade tells.
That's it? What do you need thatfor?

POE: You have no idea.
FOCUS ON: Rey. She hears a whisper. Turns around. Nothing.
Then again. A whisper. This time she follows it. Poe andZorri are having a conversation in the background.

REY: Who are you? Where are you?
Then again. She's lead out into...

She looks down the backstreet. But there's nothing. Then.
SNOKE (V.O.)
The girls blood shall flow...
PALPATINE (V.O.)
...When the King of Mortis...
KYLO (V.O.)
...Ascends the THRONE.
She turns around in a panic and falls. Forwards, as ifgravity has flipped. The street morphs into a vision. KyloRen impales her with a lightsaber. Her blood flows, as hewith bloody hands removes his helmet and ascends the throne,more powerful than ever.
PALPATINE (V.O.)
The great error will be corrected.
WHOOSH! She's out of it. Still standing in the backstreet.
She's shocked.

Poe and Zorri are sitting across from each other. BB-8 ishelping Babu with something.

POE: I'm really sorry, for what i did.

ZORRI: As mad as i am, i honestlyunderstand you. Had i gotten thechance to join the Resistance, iwouldn't have hesitated either.

POE: Am i forgiven?
She laughs.

ZORRI: I didn't say that.

Rey's walking down the street when she stiffens. Terror fillsher eyes.

KYLO: Rey.
The camera moves slightly to the right, revealed the maskedKylo Ren.

REY: Ben.

KYLO: Ben is dead.
She takes a deep breath, AND IGNITES HER LIGHTSABER! Sheswings it at him, but he ignites his too and they CLASH!!!

Rey and Kylo are standing in the middle of the room, whiteand sterile. Their lightsaber connected.

KYLO: My knights will find you soon Rey.
Make it easy.
REY

NEVER!
She spins around and...

Her saber graces a bag of red berries. Her blade clashes withKylo's.

Red berries cover the floor. The lightsaber clash again.
LEFT! RIGHT! UP! DOWN! Rey stabs after Kylo, but he deflectsit. Her saber flies right into a small pillar. The pillar isDESTROYED! And the burnt remains of Darth Vaders mask, fallto the ground.

The mask lands on the ground. Rey looks at it for a momentbefore deflecting another blow from Kylo.
She strikes after Kylo, but he deflects it and VIOLENTLY! Hegrab hold of her head.

He places his hands on the sides of her head, reaches inand...

Kylo is still holding Rey. He looks from side to side .HE'S
THERE. Then he looks to her.

KYLO: Thank you.
He fades into thin air. Rey is left distraught. She rushesback to the shop.

Zorri and Poe are still talking. Zorri is helping Babu andBB-8 tinker with something.

BABU FRICK: Eh! Tuta feri!

ZORRI: Yta monita, couldro.
(to Poe)
Can you hand me that screwdriver?
She points to a shelf. Poe turns around and grabs thescrewdriver, then hands it to Zorri.

POE: What is it that you do again?

ZORRI: Little of everything. Baby fixesvehicles and machines, i help himwith that a little, and then itranslate for people.

POE: Don't droids do that?

ZORRI: You have no idea about the distrustpeople have in droids here.

POE: Actually... I've seen my fair shareof droid hate.
He glances at BB-8.

POE: So, how many languages do you know?
Zorri laughs.

ZORRI: Well... There's Basic, Obviously.
Then there's Sith...
She counts her fingers.

ZORRI: Bout twenty, twenty-five.

POE: That's a lot more than me.
The door BURSTS OPEN! Rey storms in. She's breathing heavily,sweating, obviously scared. BB-8 Rolls back in surprise.

REY: We need to get out of here.
Poe and Zorri both get up.

POE: Whoa, whoa. What's happening?

REY: He knows where we are.

ZORRI: Who?
Then... THE ALARM SOUNDS. As if one large speaker is blasting80.
Then... THE ALARM SOUNDS. As if one large speaker is blastingthe sound across the entire city. Poe walks over to a blindedwindow, pulls down the blinds. He sees the Eclipse hangingmotionless above the city, the alarm blaring from it. Onceagain BB-8 makes an "Oh No" sound.
He turns to Rey.

POE: That's Kylo Rens ship.

ZORRI: Kylo Re-? As in Supreme Leader KyloRen?
(to Poe)
What the hell have you gotten meinto?
Poe looks back through the window. A narrow street floodedwith people. Stormtroopers start frisking random citizens.
Brutally pushing them, terrorizing them.
STORMTROOPER
STOP RIGHT THERE!
STORMTROOPER 2#
HOLD IT!
BANG! A random bystander is executed. People watch in horror,frozen by fear. Poe turns back.

POE: We need to get out of here.
(to Zorri)
Come with us.

ZORRI: What? Do you think i'm suicidal?

POE: At least help the cause.
(more)
Poe joins Rey as they run towards the door. Poe is standingin the door-frame when he turns back to Zorri.

POE: Go to the Bespin system. Find CloudCity.

ZORRI: Cloud City? I thought it wasdestroyed.

POE: It was only moved to a saferlocation. Go there. Help theResistance. Save the galaxy.
Zorri is silent.

POE: If you don't want to, you don'thave to. But i know you Zorri.
Then he runs, BB-8 close behind him. Zorri is left to her ownthoughts.
WIPE TO:

The Lady Luck, hovers between the hollow buildings. She banksas she comes to a halt less than a hundred meters from totallest spire of the Temple.

Rose and Finn are preparing their supplies and gear for themission. Rose looks at the top of the spire, where thecouncil used to be.

ROSE: We're here.
I never thought I'd get a chance tosee Coruscant with my own eyes.
What the First Order has done.

FINN: We can still do something.
He turns to her.

FINN: Let's do this.

A grappling hook is SHOT from the Lady Luck, flying all 100
meters, SHATTERING the large pane of glass. The hook attachesitself to something and stiffens.
Finn and Rose attach leads to it.

ROSE: You aren't scared of heights, areyou?

FINN: Only scared of the fall.

ROSE: Should be fine then. As long as wedon't fall.
She jumps off the ground, and ZIPS down the line. Finnfollows suit.
With great speed they both approach the ancient chamber.

ROSE: 
REMEMBER! RAISE YOUR FEET!
They both raise their feet as...

They both FLY into the room. The camera pans with them, asthey grind to a halt on the floor.

FINN: You good?

ROSE: I'm good.
They both walk into the middle of the chamber.

ROSE: I can't believe i'm here. The JediCouncil chamber.

FINN: It's disgusting.
It is. Mold is growing everywhere, there's multiple nests ofsome kind of animal, the chairs are all destroyed, rusted.
Water is dripping from the celling. The room is dark, gloomyand dank.

ROSE: Filthy.
Finn lifts his Com Device.
FINN
3PO, you there?

R2 and 3PO are at the foot of the Temple. A giant rusted gatestands barely open in front of them. 3PO raises the ComDevice to his face.

3PO: Yes master Finn. We're at theentrance.

FINN: Great. Get in there. R2 has theschematics of the building andknows where to go.

The device cuts off. 3PO turns to R2.

3PO: Why do you always seem to drag mein to dangerous situations?
They walk through the gate.

Rose is inspecting the large circular mural in the middle ofthe room. Finn is wandering about, looking at the rusted oldchairs.

ROSE: The transmitter is right here.
She knocks on the mural. It's hollow.

FINN: Look at these scorch marks.
Rose turns around.

ROSE: What about them?

FINN: They're from a lightsaber.
They are. Long thin scorch marks, not only on the chairs, butthe floor.

FINN: Something terrible happened inhere.

ROSE: Order 66.

FINN: We were taught about it as kids.
How it was the greatest thing tohappen to the galaxy. How it purgedthe evil Jedi, and saved us fromtheir Tyranny.

ROSE: Thousands were slaughtered.

FINN: Children too.
He leans closer to the chair and puts his hand in it.

FINN: Someone died here.

ROSE: How do you know that?

FINN: Can't you feel it?
Rose thinks for a moment.

ROSE: Yes. it's- it's cold.
She stares at the marks.

FINN: We have to end this. The Republic,The Empire, The First Order.
Millions have suffered.
The Com Device crackles to life.

3PO: Master Finn?

Finn holds the device to his mouth.
FINN
3PO, how's it going with theconsole?

It's a giant hall. The bookcases once filled to the brim withholocrons, scrolls and ancient books are empty, barely asingle scrap of paper left. The grand bronze statues havebeen left to decay, moss and mold growing over them.
By a small operations station, one operated by the Librarian85.
By a small operations station, one operated by the Librarianof the Jedi, R2 has hooked up to a key-port. 3PO is standingguard besides him.

3PO: R2 has hooked up to the mainconsole, but says he needs aclearence code to activate it.

Rose instantly takes out the Jedi Book, and starts to lookthrough its many pages.

FINN: You finding anything?

ROSE: Not yet.
She keeps scrolling. We see the pages depicting thetransmitter. She keeps turning pages. Until...
A page with how to activate the beacon. A clearence code iswritten clearly in Aurebesh.

ROSE: Found it.
She shows the page to Finn. He lifts the Com Device.
FINN
OK, 3PO. We've got the code.
It's...

3PO is holding the Com Device, while R2 is enteringinformation through the key-port.

FINN: ...X-Y5005-YTP-OLSH.

As Finn says this, R2 enters the code and...

Dust FLIES from the rim of the round mural, as a largemachine is lifted from under the floor. It's old, butcompared to the rest of the Temple, it's in shiningcondition. Complicated analog switches connect to thousandsof cables, gears and even some kyper crystals in the mix.
Finn and Rose look in awe, as the giant machine finishesrising from the floor.

ROSE: Larger than I thought it'd be.

FINN: You got the crystals?
Rose takes out the small leather-bound package.

ROSE: Right here.
She carefully unwraps it, revealing two very large kypercrystals, much bigger than the average Saber crystal, as bigas a pocket knife.

ROSE: Remember. Thousand year old KyperCrystals. No replacement. Don'tdrop them.

FINN: I wont.
They each pick one up, and walk to seperate sides of themachine. Finn talks into the Com Device.

FINN: Fire her up.

3PO turns to R2.

3PO: You know what to do R2.
R2 beeps four happy beeps, and turns the key-port.
WHOOM! A bright blue light starts to shine.

3PO: 
Finn and Rose step back as the machine starts to shine abright blue. Each wire and crystal is illuminated, as a faintbeam of light is shoot upwards. An ornament hanging in themiddle of the celling absorbs this beam, and it's almost asif another beam is being shot down under the device, throughthe towering spire.

ROSE: Ready?

FINN: Ready.
They both step closer to the machine. Insert each of theirKyper Crystals. The machine accepts them and pulls them fromtheir hands. The crystals grow BRIGHT! The machine startswinding loudly. Like a jet turbine preparing for takeoff.
The machine starts pulsing, and the sound grows even LOUDER!

FINN: Something is happening.
That's good, right?

ROSE: No idea.
It's almost unbearable to look at the machine, it's thatbright. Then...
It goes silent. The light starts to fade.

FINN: It didn't work.
BOOOOOM! A GIANT BEAM OF LIGHT IS SHOT THROUGH THE CELLING!
ROSE AND FINN ARE PUSHED BACKWARDS BY THE IMMENSE ENERGY!

The top of the Jedi Temple starts to glow. A large metallicantenna extends from the top. WHOOOOOSH! A beam is SHOT INTO
SPACE! IT SPLITS! DIVERGES! DISPERSES AND FILLS THE ENTIRE
SPACE.

The blue aura floods the space around Coruscant, as the beamof light becomes many, thousands of beams.
On distant worlds, the beam connects with ancient88.
On distant worlds, the beam connects with ancientcommunications towers, communications SPRINGS TO LIFE! Oncemore the Core Worlds are connected.
Like a shock-wave, the aura of the beam, spreads acrossplanets. Every droid transmits the same message.

People are watching in awe as every droid transmits aholographic image. Princess Leia of Alderaan, now aged andmatured to the great General Leia.

LEIA: We need you.

It's a packed street. People are watching as droids projectthe same message.

LEIA: For too long we've allowed evilRegimes control our lives. Firstthe Empire, now the First Order.

Rey and Poe are sneaking through a crowded street trying toavoid Stormtroopers. They turn around as the crowd turns toevery droid in the vicinity.

LEIA: Soon we will strike. We're not theonces afraid of the First Order.
The First Order is afraid of us. OfWhat we can do together.

POE: (whisper)
They did it.

3PO watches in awe as R2 projects the exact same message.

LEIA: So bring your fastest ships.

Workers in the in middle of constructing star ships, andluxury cruisers are frozen as they look confused at themessage projected by the droids.

LEIA: Your best Pilots. And help us snuffout the Empire once and for all.

Her message starts to loop and people look around in a happyconfusion. They're riled up, on the verge of revolution.

Leia and Lando are sitting in Lando's chamber with many otherresistance leaders. Snap Wexley listens through a headset.

SNAP WEXLEY: The communications lines are open.
He turns to the other leaders.

SNAP WEXLEY: They did it.
The leaders cheer.

The Hologram of Leia is playing in front of Chancellor Hux.
He looks on in disgust.

GENERAL YIAN: Sir, communication between the coreworlds has opened up.

HUX: Why isn't our jammer working?

GENERAL YIAN: We're trying to find out sir. Wedon't know why.
A light illuminates Hux's eyes from the left. He looksthrough the giant panes of glass, direct view to the JediTemple.

HUX: No.

THE TEMPLE!
The bridge crew gets up. They're all staring at the brightblue beam shooting into space.

HUX: DESTROY IT!

GENERAL YIAN: SirHUX
NOW!!!

Giant guns on the surface of the Capitol all turn and adjust.
Thousands pointed towards the temple.

There is great spite, BURNING IN HUX'S EYES.
HUX
FIRE!

Finn and Rose look at the machine in awe.

FINN: It worked.
Rose laugh/cries.

ROSE: We did it.
They run to each other and hug, eyes closed...
A series of green BLIPS, catches Finns attention. He looks tothe right and sees.

The First Order Capitol firing THOUSANDS of GIANT LASER BOLTS: at the Temple.

BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!
The bolts make impact with the base of the middle, tallesttower. The tower starts to twist and turn, as the massiveconcrete starts to CRACK like a massive bone. It SNAPS! Asthe building collapses under it's own MASSIVE WEIGHT. Largeblocks of concrete fall, slowly as they collapse on theground.
MORE LASER BOLTS target the rest of the Temple. The bluelight cuts out. TRANSMISSION IS DEAD AGAIN.
The entire Temple starts to collapse. The four outer fallapart, turning to dust. The middle tower starts leaning tothe side. It's tipping OVER!!!

ALL THE WINDOWS SHATTER!
The building is slowly losing its footing.
FINN

ROSE!
She looks at him, HORRIFIED.

FINN: 
THE ZIPLINE!
She nods. They run over to the cable. Rose attaches herselfto it, and jumps off the ground. She's dragged forwards bygravity, towards the LADY LUCK.
She lands safely. She turns to Finn.
ROSE

FINN! COME ON!
He's about to JUMP!!
CRACK!
THE ENTIRE SPIRE COLLAPSES! Finn watches Rose watch himplummet into the abyss.

A GIANT CLOUD OF DUST EXPLODES INTO THE AIR. The entireTemple collapses completely, becoming nothing but rubble anddebris.
R2 and 3PO Escape the building as it falls down on itself.
Large boulders of concrete come rolling down, turning togravel under their own weight.
ROSE
FINN!
WHOOM! Rose looks to the side. A green blast has been shotafter the Lady Luck. She jumps to the controls. She maneuversthe CRAFT!

KABOOM!
The left engine is STRUCK! She starts to spin out of control.

She COMES IN FOR A HARD LANDING!
The ship grinds across the pavement, sliding to a halt. Roselooks up as the gigantic mess. The once grand Jedi Temple,reduced to ash.
STORMTROOPER

STOP RIGHT THERE!
She turns around. Ten Stormtroopers have their blasterspointed at her.

STORMTROOPER COMMANDER: You're coming with us.
Rose raises her hands. One of the troopers puts her inhandcuffs.

STORMTROOPER: Rebel scum.
WIPE TO:

STORMTROOPER

STOP RIGHT THERE!
Poe and Rey and running down the street with BB-8 in hotpursuit. Lasers fly everywhere as they're chased by a largesquadron of troopers.

REY: How do we get to the ship?

POE: I've got no idea.
REY
WHAT!? It was your idea to run theopposite direction.

POE: I know, I know.
BB-8 beeps angrily.
He looks to the right. A large lake. Across the lake the SithShip is parked. Poe points at it.

POE: We need to get over that lake!

REY: How?
Poe points directly forwards. Sailboat speeders are parked.

POE: Those look useful!
WHOOP WHOOP! BB-8 shakes his head.
They head for the boats. Rey pulls out her lightsaber,ignites BOTH BLADES! Splits it in half and THROWS IT AT THE
TROOPERS!

REY: You never told us how you learnedto boost a speeder!

POE: What?! NOW?

REY: I have time!

POE: It's a long story! Okay?! I'll tellyou sometime we're safe!
WHOOSH! The sail extends, and the boat is violently draggedforwards, stopped by the rope keeping it docked.

POE: 
JUMP ON!
She does. Cutting over the rope in the process.
WHAM! THE SAILBOAT IS PROPELLED FORWARDS! Lifting itself highon a fin submerged under water. BB-8 is SHOT BACKWARDS! Andbefore Rey can reach out with the force, he shoots agrappling wire, and starts to pull himself back to the boat.
The troopers on shore give up. The wind is INTENSE!
REY

THE SHIP!
She points at the Sith Ship.
POE

LOOKS LIKE WE'RE IN THE CLEAR!
The ROAR of MEAN ENGINES. Poe and Rey look back, MORTIFIED.
THE KNIFE-9 IS CHASING THEM! The water ripples under thearrowhead-shaped craft, a wing formation built around thecraft (Not unlike the Batwing in BvS).
It's catching up to them. FAST.

POE: REY! IF YOU GOT ANY HIDDEN CARDS UP
YOUR SLEEVES, THIS WOULD BE A GREAT
TIME TO USE THEM!

REY

I THINK I DO!
She turns back to the sail and PUSHES! WITH THE FORCE. Theship is PROPELLED FORWARDS! Creating a tight trail on thewater, as the only thing on the boat connected to the lake isthe fin on the bottom of the craft.
The two crafts are at equal speed. The KNIFE-9 Extends twodeadly laser cannons and STARTS TO SHOT! Poe maneuvers theboat from side to side as to avoid the blasts.
POE

WE'RE ALMOST THERE!

They reach the coast! The Sith Ship is less than 100 Metersaway! THEY JUMP OFF THE BOAT, AND RUN AS FAST AS THEY CAN!
The boat CRASHES into the wharf, and BB-8 is FLUNG forwards.
He quickly follows Rey and Poe.
KRASH! An explosion blocks the way. Rey turns around, Poefollows suit. The KNIFE-9 is hovering right behind them.
REY

RUN!
They do. Through the crater. The KNIFE-9 follows them.
They're almost at the ship, when... BOOOM! IT EXPLODES! Reyand Poe, FLIES BACK! Pushed by the shock-wave.
Hundreds upon HUNDREDS of Stormtroopers circle them, GUNS
RAISED.

STORMTROOPER COMMANDER
(To the other Troops)
Set to stun.The KNIFE-9 lands. Every so slowly. While landing the ramp islowered. Hattaska, completely alone steps out.

HATTASKA: Rey.
Rey stays silent. She looks at him in utter disgust.

HATTASKA: So nice to finally meet you.
He pulls out his DARKSABER. He ignites it, and a blade ofPURE DARKNESS, erupts. It looks unnatural. As if it's suckingout all light of the room, yet glowing brighter than the sun.

REY: That saber.

HATTASKA: A little piece of my home-world.
Like it?
Rey pulls out her DOUBLE-BLADED LIGHTSABER! Ignites BOTH

BLADES! And goes HAM ON HATTASKA. But it's as if he's toyingwith her. Fighting a purely defensive fight. Not trying ONCE: to hit her. It looks too easy for him, he's barely puttingany effort into it.
SHE SPLITS THE SABER APART! STRIKES FROM BOTH THE LEFT AND
RIGHT! There's no way he can dodge it. But he raises hishand... BOOM! She's SHOT backwards.
POE
REY!

HATTASKA: Stun her.
The troopers fire hundreds of stunning blasts into her. She'stwitching, as if she has a seizure.
POE

YOU BASTARDS!
He runs at him, with ALL HE'S GOT! Hattaska raises his handonce more, and Poe's world goes black. He's out. Hecollapses.

HATTASKA: Sleep tight.

Finn's eyes go WIDE OPEN. He tries to get up, but collapsesout of exhaustion. He's in the council chamber, but it's beenflipped 90 degrees and is covered in rubble. He finally getsup. He's lying on one of the chairs of the chamber.
He jumps down on the ground and looks around in confusion.
FINN

ROSE!
His voice echoes among the rubble. He breathes heavily. He'sbleeding. From his nose and a large wound in his side,visible through his jacket.

STORMTROOPER: Over here. I heard something.
Finn stiffens as he hides behind a large chunk of rubble. Twostormtroopers walk in.
STORMTROOPER 2#
Can't see anything.

STORMTROOPER: It was probably just myimagination.
Behind the rock, Finn takes a VERY deep breath. He picks up alarge stone, and gets up. He BOLTS at the stormtroopers andTHROWS THE ROCK ON ONE OF THEM! He collapses. Finn jumps theother one! Disarms her, and points the gun straight to herhead.
The stormtrooper stops resisting once she sees Finns face.
KT-8445
FN-2187.

FINN: You know me?
KT-8445
I do.

FINN: This is wrong. All of this. What'syour name? your real name?
KT-8445
(scared)
What?
Finn JAMS the blaster in his head. Then YANKS the helmet offof KT. She's terrified.

FINN: Do you really want to do this?
Fight for the First Order.
KT-8445
It's what I was raised for. I havenothing else.

FINN: Then find something else.
She looks moved, although still very scared. Finn gets offher. She gets up.
KT-8445
What do i do?

FINN: First of all. Get a name. Then... I have no idea, you do you.
He throws the blaster to her, and walks away. KT-8445 is leftthere. Changed.

MOMENTS LATER: Finn is running through the rubble. He's limping. Breathingheavily. Someone is watching him from a distance. A child? Ora small alien?
He stops and looks back. No one. He takes a few more steps...
He collapses. From exhaustion and blood-loss.
SMASH TO BLACK:

It's a blurred mess. The world becomes clearer, and we cansee that we're from the perspective of Finn. Three Aliens anda few humans are leaned in over him. He's lying down.

FINN: Where am i?
The people talk, but we can't hear them. The world slowlybecomes completely clear.

AUR BERESH: You're in the Refugee Camp. Wefound you by the old Jedi Temple.
AUR BERESH, 42, A Mon Calamari. His skin is blue like thelate General Raddus.
Finn takes himself to the head in pain. He's been bandaged98.
Finn takes himself to the head in pain. He's been bandagedand cleaned.

FINN: Refugee Camp?

AUR BERESH: Yes. When the First Order came topower, Us who had nothing, we wereleft with no other option than tohide under the surface. We builtthis city with our own handsFinn gets up. He's in a corridor. Right in front of him, aGIANT TUBULAR ROOM, extends far up, and far down. It's filledwith houses built out of scrap metal, and other rubble. Thecity not only fills the corridor and huge tube, but EXTENDS
UPWARDS! Houses are built directly into the walls, dangerouslooking stairs carved into the sides of the huge metalconstructions.
Finn walks over to the edge of the corridor and looks intothe GIGANTIC TUBULAR HALL. It extends Hundreds of metersdown, and at least a kilometer upwards, it's well over 100
meters wide.
Finn turns back to Aur.

FINN: Are you planning an attack?

AUR BERESH: What?

FINN: Are you planning to take back theplanet that rightfully belongs toyou.

AUR BERESH: We aren't warriors. We'd neverstand a chance against the FirstOrders fleet. Their weapons.

FINN: What is that then?
He points to thousands of speeders and spaceships, parked.

AUR BERESH: They're used for housing.
Finn walks closer to Aur.

FINN: There's an attack coming. Soon theFirst Order will no longer exists.
You'll all be free.

KYLE TRYIK: What are you mumbling about?
Kylo Tryik, 21, a bearded human, nutty brown hair and greeneyes. Though he's young his eyes holds the sorrows of manylifetimes.
Finn turns to him.

FINN: I'm with the Resistance.
Finn shows a ring on his finger. It's bronze, with a goldenX-Wing plated on it.

ASHLA HYRTA: That's why we found you in thatrubble. Did you destroy it?
Ashla Hyrta, 17, a young Togruta, already battle-worn, largewhip marks slash across her face.

FINN: No. The First Order did that. Butwe activated a beacon. For amoment, the entire galaxy couldonce again speak freely, be calledto war. And we did.
More people are gathering around him.

EIHYR TOMALAK: What if they don't come? If weattack them, and no one is there tohelp us?
Eihyr Tomalak, 70, an old, man, possibly alien, his hairs aregray, and his eyes are tired.

FINN: There will be! There will always bepeople seeking freedom!
He jumps onto a large crate.

FINN: LOOK AROUND YOU! There are weaponseverywhere! The First Order is onlyin power when people fear it, whenthey do as they are told. But if noone follows their rule, THEY LOSE

ALL THEIR POWER!
More people gather around him. They're listening. They're100.
More people gather around him. They're listening. They'reriled up. They start cheering and chanting. People startarming themselves, turn on walkers, old speeders andspaceships that haven't flown in years.

FINN: ...BECAUSE WE ARE NOT THE ONES
FEARING THEM! THEY ARE THE ONES
FEARING US! AND TODAY! WE WILL TAKE
BACK WHAT IS OURS! WE'LL DESTROY
THEM ONCE AND FOR ALL!
THE CROWD IS GOING WILD! Finn has turn out towards the largetubular room. People are banging things together. Metal rods,pots, pans, anything. It's a giant chaotic rhythm! They'reall working together. They're united.

KYLE TRYIK: What's your name?
Finn smiles.

FINN: Finn.
The crowd starts to chant.
CROWD
FINN! FINN! FINN!
FINN
DON'T WORSHIP ME! WORSHIP YOURSELF!
WORSHIP FREEDOM! THE FIGHT!

AUR BERESH: What're you planning?

FINN: We take the capital.
He turns around, back to the crowd of thousands, nowpreparing for war.

FINN: THEY WILL COME AS WE MARCH DOWN THE
STREETS! TRUSTS ME!

KYLO: The girl is in our custody.

PALPATINE: Good. Good. Soon you will be a god.
Master of Mortis. The EternalEmperor.
The camera moves. The blackness fades and we're inside Kylo'schamber. Kylo is kneeling in front of him.
PALPATINE.
His decaying body is hanging from a hook like mechanical arm.

PALPATINE: The Skywalker bloodline willfinally fulfill it's TRUE destiny.
Kylo raises his head slightly.

KYLO: What's in it for me.

PALPATINE: My boy. You will becomeunstoppable. Your power unmatched.

KYLO: Why do you need the girl? Why doyou need... REY?

PALPATINE: She will serve to revive me.
Together we shall rule as one.

KYLO: No.
Palpatine says nothing.

KYLO: My whole life, you've been there.
Haven't you? Manipulating me. Evenwhen Snoke was there, you watchedfrom the Shadows. Didn't you?

PALPATINE: Everything I have done, has beenleading to this. You shall kill thegirl and ascend the throne ofMortis. With her flowing blood, I shall once more become whole. TheRule of Two will be restored, andthe sith WILL FINALLY RETURN!

KYLO: Where does that leave me? As yourapprentice for the rest ofeternity? Your eternal servant?
No...
I can't thank you enough... Mylord.
Kylo raises his arm. Palpatines eyes go wide. He STIFFENS! Hedesperately tries to move, but it amounts to nothing but amere wiggle.

PALPATINE: What are you doing? I gave youEVERYTHING!

KYLO: Thank you.
The sound is even worse than before. EVERYTHING IS DRAGGED
FORCEFULLY OUT OF HIS CORPUS. HE SCREAMS IN AGONY. Long thintendrils of life energy violently connect with Kylo'sfingertips. The energy is RIPPED from Palpatine, as he isreduced to dust. Not even skin or bone. He completelycollapses. Nothing. Gone. Dead.
Kylo breaths in. His muscles have grown, a small butnoticeable amount. His arms tighten. Is he shaking?

KYLO: Thank you.
Then. Almost completely unnoticeable, we hear it.
PALPATINE.
LAUGHTER.
Kylo turns around and leaves.
WIPE TO:

Poe wakes up. The cell is clean, almost sterile looking. Bluehighlights along the seams of the room. A large part of thecell is bathes in darkness. Poe turn around to an unconsciousRey.

POE

Rey? REY!
He shakes her.

POE: 
Come on Rey, WAKE UP!
Slowly her eyes start to open. She groans and holds a hand onher forehead.

REY: Where are we?

POE: A First Order holding cell.
Rey sits up. She sits still for a moment, then looks into thecorner of the cell.

REY: We're not alone.

POE: What?
He looks to the same corner. Something is standing there.
It's large and covered in shadows. It's moving closer.
Rey and Poe, still sitting, PUSH themselves backwards, awayfrom whatever the shadow is. It raises it's furry arms and...
AGUHWWGHHHH!!!!
IT'S CHEWBACCA!
REY/POE

CHEWIE!
They both FLY off the floor, and into the arms of the bighairy wookiee. Chewie hugs them as if he hasn't seen them ina long time. A great look of sorrow on his face.

REY: I don't understand. I thought I hadkilled you.
HUURGH HUURGH!!!

POE: Two transports?

REY: We didn't notice the second one.
Chewie growls.

POE: They went back to Bespin. TheGeneral had a mission for them.
Chewie hugs them once again.

REY: It's good to see you again.

POE: Where's BB-8?
WHOOP WOOOOOO.
Poe turns. In a corner of the cell BB-8 stands almostcompletely motionless. A restraining bolt attached to him.

REY: A restraining bolt.

POE: Those bastards.
(to BB-8)
You OK buddy?
He rips off the bolt with a lot of effort. BB-8 beeps a fewhappy bloops.

REY: How are we getting out?

POE: There has to be a way.
He turns to Chewie.

POE: Any vents?
(It's a no from Chewie)
Security keys?
(It's a no from Chewie)
Lose guards?
(It's a no from Chewie)
In the background Rey puts her everything into it. She pushesthe two sliding door apart. It's a slow and heavy movement.
Poe turns around.

POE: That was easy.

REY: (very strained)
Go.

NOW!
Poe, Chewie and BB-8 hurry out. Rey herself quickly runsthrough the door, and let's go. The door slides together witha loud CLUNK.

Poe peeks out. She turns to the others and nods.

POE: The coast is clear.
They exit the cell and enter a long hallway, like the onewhere Princess Leia was held captive in "A NEW HOPE". Theyturn down the hallway, and walk into the command area. A fairly sized room. Three hallways stretch differentdirections, Rey, Poe, Chewie and BB-8 just walked out fromthe one in the middle.
The main console in the center of the room is strangelyvacant. Not a single living soul is there.

POE: BB-8. See if you can find us a fastway out of here. Preferably onewith a ship.
BB-8 beeps affirmative and hooks up to the main console. Hissmall holoprojector, projects a small Three Dimensionalcross-section of the Eclipse.
Rey starts searching the console.

REY: They took my lightsaber.
She inspects every little nook and cranny.

POE: Finding anything?
She presses a button, and a small latch opens. Poe's tinyhandheld blaster, Chewie's Bowcaster and Rey's double-bladedlightsaber are unveiled.

REY: Yes.
All of them take their respective weapon.
The hologram is downloaded, and BB-8 beeps four short bleeps.
Poe turns to Rey.

POE: Let's go.

REY: Which direction?
POE
BB-8. Lead the way.
His heads does a tiny little nod, and happily he rolls106.
His heads does a tiny little nod, and happily he rollsforwards, towards a locked door behind the main console. Thedoor opens automatically and they find themselves in...

They come running down the hallway, BB-8 in the lead. Chewiehas taken out his Bowcaster, and is ready for battle.

STORMTROOPER: HEY! YOU!
They turn around. four stormtroopers are behind them. Gunsraised. Poe raises his gun but...
Rey swings around raises her hands and all four troopers andCATAPULTED backwards. Then, midair they're pulled back,towards Rey and the others. Rey kneels down and picks up ablaster and hands it to Poe.
Poe holds up his tiny blaster. Looks at the troopers blaster.
He coughs silently as he holsters his tiny blaster, andreadies with the trooper blaster.
The alarm SOUNDS.

POE: Let's go.
All of them nod.

Blaster bolts FLY down the hallway. Stormtroopers goBALLISTIC as Chewie hits them with his bowcaster. Likeboomerangs, Rey throws her two halved lightsaber, pullingthem back to her with the force.
POE

BB-8! HOW LONG IS LEFT!
The droid beeps.

POE: WELL, IT'S GOOD TO KNOW WE'RE

ALMOST THERE!
He shoots a trooper. Rey retracts her sabers with the force,ready to strike again but...
She freezes. Feels something. We feel it. Kylo.

POE: 
REY! WHAT ARE YOU DOING!
She turns around.
REY

MEET ME AT THE HANGAR!
She runs.
POE
REY!

BOOM!
A large explosion goes off, and they reach the end of thehallway.

Poe's eyes go wide. Through all the crossfire, right in frontof him... Kylo Rens Upsilon Command Shuttle.

POE: (to Chewie)
I GOT AN IDEA!

It's filled with Stormtroopers, standing in formation,creating a long wide path across the hangar. At the very end,Kylo Ren is standing. Looking through the forcefield out atthe planetary surface below.
Rey steps towards Kylo, a great distance still seperate them.
REY

BEN!
Kylo turns around.

KYLO: Ben is dead.

REY: No he isn't.
There's still good in you.
They start circling each other.

KYLO: Do you still believe that?
He ignites his lightsaber.

KYLO: I envy you.
He JUMPS AT HER! Their blades clash. The stormtroopers are onedge. As they're fighting, Kylo is forcing her closer andcloser to the edge of the hangar.

REY: Let go of your anger Ben!
She almost FALLS off the EDGE! She pushes Kylo several metersback. He straitens completely, his cape giving him an eerieshape, like a living shadow.
Rey looks behind her. Down at the surface of Kijimi. The lakeis small from up there. She looks back at Ben.

KYLO: Do you know why the emperor wantedyou?
Rey Solana.
REY
(Mushy voice)
That name... How-?

KYLO: It's yours Rey. Rey Solana. Givento you by your parents.

REY: How?
(screaming)
HOW!?

KYLO: Because i killed them.
It hits like a train. All sound fades and we FOCUS ON: Rey.
Two clear streams of tears are running down her face.

REY: (quietly)
no.

KYLO: Yes.
He steps closer.
THE SCREEN FLASHES WHITE!
FLASHBACK:

A young man, no older than 32 is sitting with his young wife,no older than 29. In front of them, a 5 year old Rey.

REY'S MOTHER: Rey. Be brave.

REY'S FATHER: We're going somewhere you can'tcome. I know this isn't a place fora little girl like you...
He moves a lock of her nutty brown hair.

REY'S FATHER: ...But we'll come back for you.

REY'S MOTHER: We swear.

REY (5 YEARS OLD): NOO! COME BACK!
Unkar pulls her violently.
BANG! WHITE FLASH! WE'RE IN...

In front of the cliff, where the Sith Ship is still parked,Rey's parents are kneeling in front of Kylo Ren.

KYLO: Snoke had felt your power.

But we never found you... It hadbeen years since they left you whenwe found them...
Kylo ignites his saber and IMPALES her mother.

KYLO: They searched for Sith Artifacts,hoping to hide them.

But failed to hide themselves.
Kylo impales her father. Both her parents lay dead on theground.

FLASH! WHITE FOR A MOMENT!
The flashback is over. A great look of fury on Rey's face.
Once again Rey looks down to the surface. Then back to Kylo.

KYLO: Do you want to know why Snoke hadsensed you?

REY: Liar.

KYLO: You had natural powers, but theywere elevated to unnaturalheights...
By Palpatine. To create the perfecthost. He created YOU.

REY: No.

KYLO: Yes.
But Palpatine is dead. I killedhim.
He takes off his mask. Ben Solo.

KYLO: We're a dyad Rey. Two as one in theforce. Together we can be morepowerful than anyone. Join me.

REY: You killed them.

KYLO: A mission. I had no choice. Snokeforced me. But now Snoke is gone.
Palpatine is gone. Join me.
Rey glances back over the edge.

REY: (quietly)
Never.

BRRRRZZZZZ!
The Upsilon Class Command Shuttle rises up behind Rey. Itturns around, thrusters pointed at the hangar. The ramplowers, three and a half meters away from Rey, Poe Dameroncomes into view.

POE: (to Chewie)

FULL THROTTLE! KEEP IT STEADY!
A blue haze is SHOT THROUGH THE HANGAR! Everyone is flipped111.
A blue haze is SHOT THROUGH THE HANGAR! Everyone is flippedover and pushed away! Kylo lands on one knee, both hands onthe floor, he tries to push himself forwards.

POE: 
REY!

She sees him. Runs. AND JUMPS! ACROSS ALL THREE METERS!
She barely grabs onto Poe's hand. Swinging to the side, andonto the ramp.

POE: Alright Chewie! Get us going!

The ramp closes and the shuttle BOOSTS TO HYPERSPACE!
Kylo is left in the hangar.

A clear black sky. Stars litter the infinite space. Kylo RensUpsilon Class Command shuttle breaks out of hyperspace with aloud boom. The camera follows the shuttle and...

KIF BIR: A large cloud covered, blue sphere. The ship continues downtowards the surface.

Nothing has changed since we last saw it. All black, redhighlights. All that has changed is the passengers. Rey,Chewie, Poe and BB-8.

REY: Ren told me something.

POE: What?

REY: (holding back tears)
He... He killed my parents.
Poe is silent. A look of sorrow across his pace.

REY: When I find him. And i will.
I'll kill him.

POE: Rey. I know you. You're not likethis.

REY: People say they know me. But i'mstarting to think no one does. Noteven myself.
Both of them are left in silence.

The shuttle continues down to the surface.

The shuttle slowly makes for a landing. Softly, it touchesground at the foot of a large hill, ending in a cliff. Thoughwe can't see it, we can hear the ROAR of the ocean. The rampof the shuttle lowers, and Poe, Rey and Chewie step out,followed by BB-8.

POE: The vault should be right ahead.

REY: You sure this is the right place?

POE: Where else in this system shouldthere be an Imperial Vault? It'snot like the Empire went around andbuilt them everywhere.

REY: Let's hope you're right.
They walk up the hill. They reach the top. Overlook theGIGANTIC ocean, and there, FAR, FAR AWAY! Crumbled and rustedby time, lying in a massive heap, forever in ruins.

THE SECOND DEATH STAR: It's at least three kilometers away. All of them are in awe.

REY: How do we know where the vault is?
Poe holds up the dagger.

POE: ...only this blade tells...
BB-8 looks at him weird and Chewie makes a "What're you113.
BB-8 looks at him weird and Chewie makes a "What're youtalking about" noise.

REY: What?
Poe holds up the dagger. A tiny point of metal extends fromon of the safeguards.

POE: The dagger shows the way.
He pulls on the point and pulls out a protractor. Numberswritten in Aurebesh, small lines. He holds the dagger,notices large chunks of wreckage.
FOCUS ON: The dagger. It lines up, PERFECTLY with thewreckage. The protractor points at a giant circular window,even visible at this distance.

POE: It's here.

The waves clash LOUDLY against the rusted remnants of the oldDeath Star, the sounds echo against the many large openspaces of the ruin.
The shuttle has landed on a somewhat flat area. BB-8 iswaiting with Chewie by the ship, while Rey and Poe crawl upthe wreckage.
Poe hands her a device, then points deep inside wreck.

POE: The vault was in his throne room.
It should be somewhere over there.

REY: Thanks.
They hug.

POE: See you soon.
She smiles and leaves. Poe walks back to the shuttle.

MONTAGE: Rey is journeying through the wrecked Death Star. Jumpingacross wide gaps, swinging in ropes and wires. She's runningthrough it as it's an obstacle course.

MONTAGE OVER: She RUNS! AND JUMPS! Across a wide gap. She grabs onto a wireand starts to pull herself up. Up to a ledge, in front of agiant tube. It's tilted 60 degrees and rests on more rubble.
She crawls through it and enters...

Almost every pane of glass is gone from the circular window.
Rey turns to the withered throne in front of it. She inspectsit with a certain curiosity in her eyes. The past echoesfaintly in her head.
YOUNG LUKE (V.O.)
I am a Jedi, like my father beforeme.
PALPATINE (V.O.)
Now... You will die.
Screams of pain.
YOUNG LUKE (V.O.)

FATHER! HELP ME!
Vaders strained breathing. Palpatines uncontrolled cackling.
VADER (V.O.)

No... NO!
Then nothing. Rey pulls back from the throne. A saddenedexpression on her face.
Behind her, a door slides open. She turns around, it's a darkand black space.
She walks towards it, then through it, into darkness and oncemore we hear the past echo.
OBI WAN (V.O.)
YOU WE'RE THE CHOSEN ONE!
VADER (V.O.)
I am your father.
YODA (V.O.)
Do or do not. There is no try.
LUKE (V.O.)
Rey.
SNOKE (V.O.)
Rey.
OBI WAN (V.O.)
Rey. This is your destiny.
PALPATINE (V.O.)
Rey.
All sound becomes NOTHING.
Rey turns around. The door is gone. She's surrounded by totaldarkness, yet she is completely lit.

REY: Where am I?

EVIL REY: Where you belong.

Rey turns around in surprise. There she is. Herself.

REY

You... IEVIL REY: Embrace it Rey. The darkness. Youknow it's your destiny. You wereborn from darkness. We were.

REY: No.
Evil Rey smiles, revealing sharp nasty teeth. Then...
SHE HISSES! She extends a folding double bladed lightsaber.
Two CRIMSON red blades BURST out of each side, unfolding intoa long spear of death.
Rey extends her own saber. THE TWO BLADES MEET! AND...
nothing...
Rey is in an abandoned vault. Light has returned. She looksdown at her ignited saber. She presses a button and theblades disappear.
She takes a deep breath. She starts looking. With her hand,she feels out in the force.

KYLO: Are you looking for this?

The camera turns, KYLO REN. He's holding it. A holocron. Theway-finder to Mortis. Rey looks mortified.
With his free hand, he removes his helmet. he THROWS it tothe ground where it shatters into bits and pieces. A slightsmile plays across his lips.

KYLO: Look at you. You wanted my mothersapproval. She wanted you to be aJedi, but you're not. Quite thecontrary. You can never go back,like I can't. Nothing will ever bethe same.

REY: Give it to me.
He looks down at the holocron.

KYLO: I know what I need to know.
Palpatine told what where to go. I have no use for this.
His grip tightens. Cracks start to show on the sides of theglass lining.

SMASH!
He's crushed it.
REY

NO!
She ignites one end of her lightsaber and SWINGS it at Kylo.
He ignites his and with an elegant move, he parries herattack. Their Final Duel has begun.
Rey ignites the second half of her light saber, and SPLITS IT
IN TWO! She swings the second lightsaber at Kylo, but withthe force, he PUSHES THE BLADE BACK! Kylo pushes Rey backwith the force, she forms an X with her sabers as she holdsher footing.
Kylo swings his saber around once and LUNGES AT HER! Theystart swinging like wild. Parrying left and right. Rey swingsand cuts over a bundle of wires, Kylo STABS his saber towardsher, doing nothing but half a piece of rubble.
Rey pushes Kylo back. He jumps into the air, their sabersclash MID AIR. He lands back on the ground. Rey is right infront of the circular window. Kylo sees his opportunity, andwith the force he THROWS HER THROUGH IT! He jumps out afterher!

The waves are WILD! 10 meters high, violently clashingagainst the damaged wreck.
Rey does a back-flip in the air. Falls 10 meters and regains117.
Rey does a back-flip in the air. Falls 10 meters and regainsher footing on a long strip of metal, what seems to have beena hallway once. With a loud CLUNK, Kylo lands in front ofher.

KYLO: I know you're angry Rey! USE IT!

REY

I'LL KILL YOU!
Screaming! She runs at Kylo with her two lightsaber stillignited. KYLO RAISES HIS SABER ABOVE HIS HEAD! HE MAKES AN
AXE MOVEMENT, BUT REY PARRIES! Forming an X with her blades,the two opponents lock, for a moment starring into eachothers eyes.
Kylo pushes down on her, she's forced backwards. They run ateach other. Strike after strike, their blades collide. A bigwave SPRAYS water into the air, vaporizing instantly oncontact with the sabers.
Rey swings around, Kylo has a hard time keeping up with thetwo blades, but somehow, he still has the upper hand.

Leia is sitting with Lando in his chamber. A great sorrowacross her face. She turns to Lando.

LEIA: I I can feel him Lando. He's in somuch pain.
Tears stream down her face. Lando leans down and kisses heron the forehead.

LANDO: You're the only one who can dosomething about it now. Help yourson Leia.
She smiles. He puts his hand on her cheek, wipes away a fewtears.

LANDO: Don't worry. You'll be alright.
He turns around and leaves. Leia puts a hand on the couch.
Feels deep inside herself...
Makes a connection.

A GIANT WAVE! Rey sees it. She JUMPS RIGHT OVER IT! As shelands with an extremely heavy sound, the metal moans andcreeks. She looks at the wave at it passes where Kylo stood.

KYLO REN: Emerges from the wave, soaking wet, lightsaber still ignited.
He assumes an attack position and LUNGES AT HER! One by one,clash after clash, it's so fast, both of them can barely keepup. They stab after each other, they slam, they hit. It'sviolent. Their sabers connect in a lock. Kylo stares 
deepinto Rey's eyes. He raises a hand, and stars PUSHING!
The blades bend and contort in an unnatural fashion, a streamof hot plasma emits from it them.
Rey follows suit, and soon Kylos blade is bent too.
The sound is eerie, like scratching a thousand nails againsta chalkboard.
All sound fades.
LEIA (V.O.)
BenHis entire, loving childhood FLASHES BEFORE HIS EYES! In lessthan five seconds we see his wonderful upbringing.
Kylos eyes go open. He pushes away Rey with a powerful forcepush. Looks her in the eyes.

Leia's eyes go WIDE OPEN. A single tear falls down hersmiling face.

LEIA: Come home Ben.

Kylo looks at his hands, as if they're foreign to him. Thenat Rey. She's bewildered, waiting for his next move. He looksdown at a puddle of still water.

BEN SOLO: Is reflected back at him. He starts crying, like a little boy119.
Is reflected back at him. He starts crying, like a little boywithout his mother.
He looks back to Rey.

KYLO: I'm sorry. Rey.
SHE'S LIVID! SHE SCREAMS! SHE LUNGES AT KYLO! STABS RIGHT
THROUGH HIM! The lightsaber pierces him as if he's not eventhere. He's shocked. Scared.
So is she. She's shaking. She looks down at what she's done.
Quickly, like a reflex, she pulls out the saber. She stepsback in shock. Kylo looks at her. He collapses.
KYLO REN IS DEAD.
He tries to get up. Sees her slowly backing away, runningaway.

Poe watches through a pair of binoculars. Rey running away.

POE: (to Chewie)
Where is she going?
Chewie shrugs, making an "I don't know" sound.

POE: (yelling)

REY!
An engines ROARS! Poe sees in the distance, Kylo Rens TieSilencer, piloted by Rey. It takes off.

POE: Rey?

Ben watches his ship fly away. Tears streaming down his face.
He looks down on his stomach. The wound. While shaking, hepulls back the cloth. He puts a hand on the wound, and letshis life force flow. The skin starts to heal, the blooddisapears, and soon the whole wound is gone.
He gets up. Watches over the great ocean. He limbs over to asmall branch of wreckage, slightly elevated above the rest.
Birds fly in the sky over the great ocean. Waves as big as120.
Birds fly in the sky over the great ocean. Waves as big ashouses clash against the ancient rubble. Ben takes a deepbreath, and closes his eyes.

HAN SOLO: Hey kid.

For a moment Ben stays frozen in time, as if he doesn't wantto look behind him. He turns around.

HAN SOLO: Hasn't changed one bit since we last saw him on StarkillerBase.
More tears. Years of pent up sadness, misery and frustration,all coming out at once.

BEN: You're just a memory.

HAN SOLO: Your memory...
I miss you son.

BEN: Your son is dead.

HAN SOLO: No.
A sad, yet triumphant smile plays across his lips.

HAN SOLO: Kylo Ren is dead. My son is alive.
Kylo stands. Saying nothing.

HAN SOLO: Come home.

BEN: It's too late. What I've set intomotion can't be stopped.

HAN SOLO: Yes it can.

BEN: I know what I have to do... But I don't know if i have the strengthto do it.
Han puts a loving hand on his sons face.

HAN SOLO: You do.

BEN: Dad.

HAN SOLO: Son.
They both smile, laugh even. Kylo turns around. And with allthe power in the world, he RIPS HIS LIGHTSABER OFF HIS BELT,
AND THROWS IT FAR, FAR INTO THE DEEP OCEAN! It flies in acurve, and with a splash, it his the water.
He takes a deep breath. Finally free. For the first timeever, he genuinely looks happy. He turns around.
Han's gone. Ben laughs to himself.

BEN: I love you dad.
He looks into the sky.
Then...
THE MEAN ROAR OF ENGINES. Ben looks to the side.
THE KNIFE-9

Poe, Chewie and BB-8 watch as the Knight ship approaches.

POE: That doesn't look good.
BB-8 and Chewie both make a "Really?" sound.

POE: Let's get going. Now.
They run into the shuttle.

Poe sits in the pilots seat, Chewie right next to him. Hepresses a few buttons andWHOOM!!!
The engines ROAR to life.

The shuttle takes off and SOARS upwards, THE KNIFE-9 RIGHT
BEHIND THEM.
The shuttle makes a barrel roll before diving down into thewreckage of the station.

Chewie ROARS at Poe.

POE: I KNOW! I KNOW!

PEW PEW! Shots are fired from the KNIFE-9. The shuttle turnsupwards, and...
BOOOM! Launches into hyperspace...

Ben watches as the KNIFE-9 gives up pursuit and changesdirection towards him.
WIPE TO:

A door surrounded by heavily armored stormtroopers opens.
Chancellor Hux steps out, a slimy and disgusting smile on hiswretched face.

HUX: Rose Tico. Rebel scum.

ROSE: (quietly)
snake.

HUX: Your spiteful comments no longerbenefit you my dear friend. YourResistance will soon be dead.

ROSE: It'll never die. Not after what wepulled today.

HUX: Who do you think leaked the launch?
Rose remains silent, thinking.

HUX: We were the ones who gave you thatinformation. We're expecting you.

ROSE: That changes nothing. An empirewill never rule again.

HUX: The First Order is no Empire.

ROSE: Not yet.
Hux slabs Rose so hard, that her BANGS against a metal rod.
She lowers her head in pain.

HUX: Tell me. Where is your base?

ROSE: You really think I'm stupid? I won't tell you.

HUX: You will soon.
He holds his hand to her head. It tightens. He holds eyecontact. He's trying to use the force.

HUX: Tell me... EVERYTHING.
FOCUS ON: Rose. She's not budging, she had a look of pity anddisgust.

ROSE: You are really pathetic. You reallythought that would work?
Hux pulls away his hand is he breaks concentration.

HUX: You filthy animal.
(to Guards)
Fire up the machine again. Get herto talk this time.
He turns around and leaves. Guards approach her with weapons124.
He turns around and leaves. Guards approach her with weaponsof torture. She's scared now.

Everyone is at work. Speeders are being fixed, walkers beingbuilt, weapons of all kinds and sizes are being prepared,graffiti covers EVERYTHING. It's a huge army, and they'repreparing.
Finn is helping someone on a larger ship.

KYLE TRYIK: You sure they will come?

FINN: You saw the transmission yourself,didn't you?
He smiles and turns around. The camera BOOMS UP. The entirecamp has been turned into a war factory.
WIPE TO:

BOOM! The Upsilon shuttle blasts out of hyperspace. Itcontinues down towards the dark side of the deep orangesphere.

The shuttle makes an approach to Cloud City. Hundreds offighters approach it.

COMMANDER: You have entered this area withoutproper identification, pleaseverify yourself.

POE: It's us! Poe, Chewbacca and BB-8!
We're back!
Static.

COMMANDER: You have been given clearance.

The ramp lowers and Poe steps out of the shuttle, followed byChewie and BB-8.
Leia and Lando come running, followed by various staff.
LEIA

POE!
She runs up to him and gives him a short hug. Then shenotices Chewie.

LEIA: (short of air)
chewie.
The emotions overwhelm her, and she starts to cry.

LEIA: I thought you were...
Chewie hugs her. A warm, long hug.

LEIA: Where's Rey?

POE: I don't know. She left.
Leia looks towards the stars.

LEIA: Rey.

POE: Leia.
She snaps out of it.

POE: When is the assault?

LEIA: Now. Come with me.
They walk down the balconies and roads of the city, thecamera ROLLS upwards, revealing three fully stocked MonCalamari cruisers.

The place is packed. Pilots. Poe enters with Leia, followedby Chewie and BB-8. Leia nods to Lando.

LANDO: Today. We fight a war we might notwin. The First Order has a biggerarmy than us. Bigger guns than us,and god forbid if we even startcomparing our numbers to theirs.
But we have one thing they don'thave. Love. Love for each-other,love for ourselves, love forfreedom and the galaxy. Today, thewar ends.
People are silent. Poe steps up.

POE: As long as those Star Destroyersare hooked up to the system, we canhit them.

SNAP WEXLEY: We need to pull some HoldoManeuvers, do some real damage.

LEIA: I won't allow that. Holdo was a onein a million shot, fighters andfreighters can take out those shipsif there are enough of us.

CONNIX: There aren't enough of us.

LANDO: That's where me and Chewie come in.
Chewie looks confused, He makes eye contact with a smilingLando.

LANDO: We'll head to the core worlds, MidRim, heck, even the Outer Rims,find anybody who wants to fight.

POE: We've got friends out there.
They'll come if they know there'shope.
Chatter arises. People are convinced and riled up.

POE: The First Order wins by making usthink we're alone. But we're notalone.

FINAL PREPARATIONS. Pilots are all running to their ships.
Droids are being placed into fighters.
POE (V.O.)
The Old Rebellion never gave up,and neither will we.
They toppled an Empire and we'regoing to show them that we're notaffraid.
Poe is running with Black Squadron. Loading up their X-wings,B-Wings, Y-Wings, all sorts of wings.
POE (V.O.)
What our mothers and fathers foughtfor, WE WILL NOT LET DIE.
The final Resistance members are loaded onto a shuttle andsent aboard the command ships.
POE (V.O.)
Not today. Today we make our laststand.
The ships start taking off. One by one, they shoot into theskies.
POE (V.O.)
For the Galaxy and for everyonewe've lost.

Over 300 fighters SOAR THROUGH THE SKY! Followed by themassive Cruisers. They continue upwards, towards space.
Coruscant.

All ships are in formation. Hyperdrives prepped.

Poe flips a few switches. BB-8 beeps a happy cascade ofnoises.

POE: I see you learned to do happybeeps.
(into microphone)
Prepare for hyperspace.
(to himself)
Here we go.
He pulls a lever. STARS TURN TO STRIPES!

All the ships jump into hyperspace, one by one.
WIPE TO:

The camera pans down towards the giant blue sphere.

A single nesting Porg screeches to the world. Smoke is comingfrom above a hill. The camera BOOMS UP, revealing a burningTie Fighter and in front of it, a hooded figure stands.

REY: She's crying. She throws some chunks of wood on the fire,barely making a single change. She's obviously angry.
She takes out her lightsaber, gives it a "This is your fault"
look, then...
SHE TOSSES IT IN THE FIRE!

BUT!
It stops mid air. A blue hand locked onto it. Luke Skywalkeremerges from the flames, clear as ever.

LUKE: A Jedi's weapon deserves morerespect.
A hint of pride in his look, as he inspects the weapon.

REY: Master Skywalker.

LUKE: What are you doing?
Rey sits down and looks up at Luke.

REY: I saw myself turn to the dark side.
I won't let that happen. I'm doingwhat you did. I will never leavethis place.

LUKE: I was wrong.
It was fear that kept me here. Whatare you most affraid of?

REY: Myself.

LUKE: Why? Because he created you?
Because Palpatine gave you yourpower?
Luke sits down with her.

LUKE: Who you are and what you are, thoseare two different things Rey. Sure,you were created from a place ofdarkness, but use that power forthe greater good. You've been givena gift that has never been seenbefore. Use it.

REY: He's still out there. Isn't he.
Luke nods silently.

LUKE: You can't stop him alone.

REY: Ben.
She looks to the side.

There he is. Back turned, looking out on the star scape.
CLOSE UP: Ben Solo. He's looking far into the stars.
Something is wrong. We hear something. It's almost like astorm. The camera starts moving through the infinity ofspace, a nebula comes into view, a giant cloud of gas.
It's violent. Lightning the size of planets and it'sspreading.
He looks in his hands. A silver cylinder. His original130.
He looks in his hands. A silver cylinder. His originallightsaber.

BEN: He's still alive.
Rey.
He turns around. They make eye contact.

BEN: We have to stop him. I can feelsomething.

REY: It's big.

BEN: Rey. Come with me.
He raises his hand.

BEN: Help me.
Rey gets up. She walks over to him. They put their handstogether.

REY: I'll be there.
Ben smiles. Then fades into thin air.
Rey's eyes go WIDE.

REY: I need a ship.

LUKE: Don't worry.
Luke is standing right in front of a lagoon. Somethingrumbles, and then...
Luke's old X-WING, rises from its watery grave.

LUKE: We have all that we need.
In all it's glory, the X-WING lands on the ground.
WIPE TO:

Golden rays of sunlight fill the room. Hux is kneeling infront of a hologram of Palpatine.

PALPATINE: The boys betrayal will not be takenlightly. Execute him...
Immediately.
An insane look of glee in Hux's eyes.

HUX: As you wish. My lord.

Ben is walking down the hallway, a stern look on his face. Heturns down a corner to...

In the middle of everything. A TIE WHISPER is parked. Redhighlights are strewn across its black surface. He's about toget on board when...
THE KNIGHTS OF REN

HATTASKA: Master.

BEN: Yes.

HATTASKA: I'm so sorry.
All of them ignite their weapons. Ben reacts quickly. Hepulls out his own lightsaber and ignites it. Blue. He quicklypushes all of the knights away except Hattaska.
They lunge at each other. But right before impact, Ben pullsa quick one. He pushes Hattaska back with the force, beforeJUMPING in a back flip. He lands atop the TIE WHISPER.

BEN: See-ya.
He opens the hatch, and gets in.

Hattaska gets up. Ignited DARKSABER in hand. The WHISPER: takes off.

Hattaska RUNS at the ship, BUT IT GETS OFF THE GROUND IN
TIME. It BLASTS its engines at the knights, and they'reTHROWN back.
BOOM! The ship jumps to hyperspace.

BOOM! 300 ships exit hyperspace. THE RESISTANCE IS HERE! TheFighters break into groups of 30.

POE: Black leader, standing by.

SNAP WEXLEY: Blue leader, standing by.

GREEN LEADER: Green leader, standing by.

Red, Brown, Orange etc. All the leaders stand by. Eachspacecraft goes into battle mode. In the distance, Coruscant,orbited by a giant ring.

A mechanical chair SWINGS around, in it... Leia Organa solo,like Admiral Ackbar decades before her.

LEIA: Solo leader, standing by.
Through her the large windows of the bridge, we see Coruscantgrow LARGER.

POE: Look at those ships.
BB-8 makes a sarcastic, yet sad sound.

POE: Whoa buddy? Where did the optimismgo?
BB-8 makes an unintuitive noise, Poe shakes his head.

Leia looks at the giant orbital ring.

BRIDGE CREW: Ma'am?

LEIA: Commence the attack.

Each group of X-wing breaks from the fleet and heads to thesurface in long line.

POE: Commencing attack.

They're picking up speed fast. The ring is coming nearer.
We watch from each groups POV, each of them are attacking adifferent position on the ring.

POE: Ready yourself!

Commander Yian is standing on the bridge next to a hologramof Hux. He looks at the attack in disbelief. Hux has a nastyand smug expression on his face.

HUX: Finally. Today we'll crush theRebellion once and for all.

COMMANDER YIAN: Sir, they're coming in far too boldthan what we expected. They maypenetrate our defenses.

HUX: Just destroy them. BEGIN THE LAUNCH
SEQUENCE!

Alarms sound. Star Destroyers start preparing for takeoff.
Thousands of guns all turn and point towards the variousgroups of fighters. KABOOM! It's a barrage of colorful bolts.
The sky is littered with death.
Like planes hitting turbulence, the X-wings start dispersing.

CHAR: Coming in hot.

POE: Just try to not get hit! We need toget into that ring!

The X-wings continue. Twisting and turning in their path.
Avoiding shot after shot.

Yian turns to Hux, a countdown in the background.

COMMANDER YIAN: Should we deploy TIE-Fighters?

HUX: No. They won't stand a chanceagainst our defenses.

Poe's team MAKES IT TO THE RING! They're GRACING THE SURFACE.
SPEEDING ALONG the surface.

POE: FLIP!
They do! BLACK SQUADRON FLIPS! AND THEY'RE ALL PILOTED
BETWEEN THE TWO RINGS, INSIDE THE SHIPYARDS!!!
The first Star Destroyers start moving. They're LAUNCHING!

POE: Looks like they're launching thefleet! LET'S GET GOING!
Blue squadron speeds along the two rings.

SNAP WEXLEY: CAREFUL NOW!

BOOM! BOOM! Two of his teammates are BLOWN OUT THE SKY!

SNAP WEXLEY: NO!
SNAP TURNS RAPIDLY! DIVING BETWEEN THE SHIPYARDS.
Poe is speeding through the shipyards. He finally reaches thelaunching Star Destroyer.

POE: Here we go.

POW POW! Two purple missiles are SHOT out of Poe's cannons.
They hit their target and...
WHOOM! The entire Star Destroyer BLOWS UP!

POE: YEAH!

Yian turns to Hux.

COMMANDER YIAN: Should we?
HUX
DEPLOY THE FIGHTERS!

HUNDREDS OF TIE FIGHTERS EXIT HANGERS ALL AROUND THE
STRUCTURE. THE FIGHT REALLY BEGINS!

The city is a wasteland compared to what it was. A rumble.
No, a chant. From behind a corner, THE ARMY approaches! It'sa weird assembly of homemade weapons and Republic gradevehicles. In front of all of it.
FINN.
Stormtroopers run in a panic.

STORMTROOPER COMMANDER

STAND DOWN!
And so it begins.
Cannons fire! BOMBS ARE FLYING! TIE-FIGHTERS ARE DEPLOYED!
THE ARMY CONTINUES DOWN THE STREET.
FINN

WE TAKE THE CAPITAL!
The stormtroopers are trying to stand their ground, but THE
ARMY, is like an unstoppable force. People all around arebeing RILED UP! They're cheering on! They're joining in!
Walkers meet THE ARMY, but they are nothing compared the theships and fighters!

It's no longer a single street. Hundreds of thousands havejoined in the revolt. The streets are OVERFLOWING withREVOLUTIONARIES!
They approach the CAPITOL.

Hux is overlooking the city. The streets are overflowing.

HUX: What's this?

BRIDGE OFFICER: People are revolting.

HUX: I know that. BUT WHY!

BRIDGE OFFICER: I don't know sir.
HUX
BLOW THEM OUT OF EXISTENCE.

NOW!
The bridge officer jumps.

BRIDGE OFFICER: Yes sir.
He turns to the crew.

BRIDGE OFFICER: ARM THE CANNONS!

The cannons adjust and turn. They're REVVING UP!
BOOM! A bombardment of lasers hits the city.

It's a complete chaos. Buildings are collapsing under theintense fire.
People emerge from the rubble. ANGRIER THAN EVER! THE
REVOLUTION IS ONLY GROWING!
THE ARMY, storms the Capitol square. Stormtroopers are barelystanding their ground. Walkers are deployed. TIE FIGHTERS ARE

BOMBARDING THE CITY!
An AT-AT approaches Finn. He watches in fear as it arms it'sguns.

BOOOM! THE WALKERS IS BLOWN UP BY A MISSILE!

Finn looks to his right. A LARGE SQUADRON OF STORMTROOPERS!
All dressed in painted armor.
One of them is without a helmet.
KT-8445!
KT-8445
I got a name!

FINN: What is it?

KATIE: Katie. Like it?

FINN

I LOVE IT!
The rogue squadron has JOINED IN THE FIGHT!
WIPE TO:

Ben Solo's TIE WHISPER is SOARING through Hyperspace.

The blue light is reflecting off his skin and eyes. He pullsa lever decelerating the craft.
STRIPES APPEAR! And the ship REENTERS realspace.

A Gigantic octahedron, THE MONOLITH, is floating in themiddle of space. The space around it, is like a giganticstorm. One half is red, the other blue. Lightning isstriking. It's dangerous, as if the whole place is charged tothe max, and is about to release everything.
The TIE WHISPER, adjusts course and flies towards THE
MONOLITH.

Ben watches THE MONOLITH, as he approaches a tunnel in themiddle of it. He flies straight into it and is surrounded byTOTAL DARKNESS, and infinite, starless space.
He pulls his lever. NOTHING TURNS TO STRIPES! He acceleratesto HYPERSPACE.

Ben exits hyperspace. Surrounded by MASSIVE storm clouds,MORTIS comes into view.
The TIE WHISPER continues to the surface.

It's a confusing mess of day and night. A violent storm isROARING in the heavens above. All life is visibly beingdrained of its energy.

The TIE WHISPER touches down on the ground, and BEN SOLO: steps out.
In the distance, a MASSIVE MOUNTAIN rises into the storm. A giant temple towers it.

Kylo is scaling the mountain. Crawling up. The CAMERA BOOMS
UP. He's close.

He reaches the top. A large open space, smooth brick lay thefoundation of the floor.
He starts walking towards the giant open entrance.

The KNIFE-9 soars through the sky. Approaching the temple.

It's like a giant cave. A large circular hole in the middleof the celling, leads far through the temple and into theskies above.
In the middle of the room, a large stony throne stands. Hugeholes and pits in the throne room lead to death. Benapproaches the throne.

PALPATINE: Skywalker.

Ben stops. He ignites his lightsaber.

BEN: I've come to kill you. Once and forall.

PALPATINE: My boy. Killing me last time simplymade me stronger. I should haverealized that it was my decrepitbody holding me back. Soon myspirit will unite with the forceitself.

BEN: I won't let that happen.

PALPATINE: Then you shall die.

LIGHTNING! It picks up BEN! HE SCREAMS IS AGONY! IN A PUFF OF
DARK SMOKE, PALPATINE APPEARS. Fully healed. Fully powered.
He's laughing and cackling like a madman.

PALPATINE: FOOLISH BOY! HOW POWERFUL YOU COULD
HAVE BEEN! SITTING ON THE THRONE
WITH ME. THE SITH ETERNAL.
He casts him back. Ben lands on his back in great pain.

PALPATINE: Rise.
He lifts his hand and Ben is pulled up by his feet. TheKNIGHTS OF REN enter the room.

PALPATINE: When the girl arrives. The ritualwill begin.
BOOM! Lightning. The storm is only growing stronger.

Rose is hanging in her restraints. The room is almost filledwith complete darkness. We hear a door open and light flowsinto the room.
Rose lifts her head. The CAMERA turns revealing astormtrooper. He drops his gun and walks over to Rose. Hestarts to unchain Rose.
She looks up at him.

ROSE: Finn?
YT-2118
No.

ROSE: Who are you?
YT-2118
I'm YT-2118.

ROSE: Why are you helping me.
YT-2118
Because I've got nothing to lose.
Watching your friend find somethingto fight for. Something to love.
The First Order took everythingfrom me.
He loosens the last chain and Rose falls to the ground. She'sexhausted, without. YT helps her up and hands her a gun.

YT-2118: Do some damage.
He turns around and leaves.

ROSE: What about you?
YT-2118
I'll die fighting what I foughtfor.
She inspects the gun he gave him. Looks to the hallway.

ROSE: Thank you.

A bloody Rose runs into the room. A main console connects toa computer. Stormtroopers turn, but it's too later. She firesa symphony of lasers killing all of the crew inside. She runsto the computer.
She enters something into a keypad, and a Hologram of theentire capitol appears.
She opens folders.

ROSE: (to herself)
Automated escape coordinates.
She starts typing into the computer, visibly changing thecoordinates.

ANOTHER STAR DESTROYER BLOWS UP! THEN ANOTHER! But X-wingsare being destroyed faster than the Star Destroyers. Poe's Xwing Maneuvers carefully between the large metal structures.
More fighters are being deployed from the three ships.
The three ships are BOMBARDING the ring.

Leia is analyzing various data. A screen shows every singlefighter and its pilot, over half of them are gray, DEAD.
POE
GENERAL! We're losing fightersfaster than we can handle. We CAN'T
KEEP UP!

LEIA: Help will be here soon!

A Star Destroyer launches successfully, it's not been blownup.

SNAP WEXLEY: I'm having a hard time!

POE: SNAP! SNAP! PULL UP!
He tries to! Two of the four engines on his fighter areburning! HE SCREAMS!
BOOM! SNAP IS SHOT DOWN!

POE

SNAP!
He screams!
The communications line is nothing but a cascade of panic andfear.

X-WING PILOT: Commander! WHAT DO WE DO!

A-WING PILOT: THERE'S TOO MANY OF THEM HELHe cuts out.

Poe watches in horror as more of his brethren areslaughtered.

BOOM! The shields on the Holdo are pierced. The entire shipBLOWS UP!

He looks at the burning wreck in terror.

The screen showing pilots is fading. More and more areturning gray, indicating their deaths.

LEIA: We're loosing.

POE: My friends. I'm sorry... I thoughtwe could do it.

The Star Destroyers are launching uninhibited now. One byone, more and more massive ships launch from the ring.

POE: (crying)
I'm so sorry. There's just too manyof them...
Crackle.

LANDO: But there's more of us Poe. Thereare more of us.

Poe's eyes go wide. HE YANKS HIS STICK DOWN!

TEN THOUSAND SHIPS APPEAR FROM HYPERSPACE! IT'S LANDO AND
CHEWIE.

POE: Look at this. LOOK AT THIS!

POE: LANDO YOU DID IT!

Leia has gotten out of her seat. She's standing in front ofthe huge window, looking at the giant fleet that have joinedthem.
She turns around.
LEIA TURN THE SHIP AROUND! OPEN FIRE.

Lando is laughing wholeheartedly, sitting next to Chewie.
Behind them are a few unnamed Resistance soldiers and NienNunb.

LANDO: Thought you needed some help.
Nien laughs in his alien language, and Chewie ROARS withglee!

THE TIDES HAVE TURNED! Star Destroyers are being blown upleft and right! Parts of the orbital ring is even having ahard time.

LANDO: Hit those underbellies!

An older Wedge, his hair is gray, but his spirit strongerthan ever!

WEDGE: Got it Lando!

Wedge fires a shot. A STAR DESTROYER BLOWS UP!
KABOOM! Another Star Destroyer blows up.

ZORRI: So long, SKY TRASH.

POE: Who's flying that ship?

Zorri Bliss is piloting the ship. Babu Frick jumps up.
BABU FRICK
HEY HEY!

There is panic on the bridge. People are having a hard timeorganizing. Ships are blowing up LEFT AND RIGHT! THE FIRST

ORDER IS LOSING!
Hux's hologram appears, he looks at the chaos in confusion.

HUX: What is this? They have no navy.

COMMANDER YIAN: It's no navy. It's just... People.

The tides have turned. THE ARMY is beginning to lose againstthe FIRST ORDER stormtroopers.
KYLE TRYIK
FINN! We're losing!

FINN

Keep going! THIS HAS TO WORK!
A giant walker approaches them. Fighters approach them. Finncloses his eyes.
But nothing happens. He opens them.
WHOOM! WHOOM! WHAM! Fighters and Ships RUSH BY! It's Lando'sfleet! They've come to the rescue. They turn the tide.
Bombarding the Stormtroopers.
AUR BERESH
THEY CAME!

FINN: I KNEW IT!

3PO and R2 are walking down the desolate streets. Loud soundsof warfare are not far away.

3PO: Oh no R2. Can you hear that?
R2 beeps.

3PO: What? What do you mean revolution?
They turn down a corner.
THE ARMY. 3PO steps back in shock.

3PO: Oh my.
They're not too far away from Finn.

3PO: MASTER FINN!

3PO: MASTER FINN!
Finn turn around and sees the two droids.
FINN
3PO! R2!
He waves his hands.

FINN: It's dangerous there! Get overhere!
The two droids walk towards him.

Hux is watching the destruction. He's standing next to ahologram of Yian.

COMMANDER YIAN: Sir. We can't keep up much longer,we need to evacuate!

HUX: Not. Yet. We will win this.
Yian's hologram disapears. Hux looks up.

HUX: (to himself)
My lord. Help us.
WIPE TO:

Luke's X-wing SOARS down towards the temple. It's about toland when...
KRAKABOOM! LIGHTNING GRACES THE SHIP.
The X-wing lands. Rey steps out. She pulls out her147.
The X-wing lands. Rey steps out. She pulls out herlightsaber, IGNITES IT and heads towards the gate.

Rey walks into the gigantic hall. She finds Palpatinestanding on the throne, Kylo held locked with the force andThe knights of Ren surrounding him.

PALPATINE: At long last... The girl arrives.
She raises her lightsaber. Palpatine raises his handstriumphantly.

PALPATINE: 
THE RITUAL BEGINS!
He lets Ben go. He falls to the ground. Rey runs over to him.
He gets up, igniting his lightsaber.

PALPATINE: (to the knights)
Kill them.
It's like the Praetorian Guards. Each of them raises theirweapon. Hattaska ignites his darksaber, blade after bladeignites.
Rey and Ben stand back to back.

BEN: Ready?

REY: Ready.
THE FIGHT STARTS! Ben IMPALES VICRUL! No fight. She falls tothe ground, instantly. Rey PUSHES Jaedek back, he falls downone of the deep holes.
Hattaska JUMPS at her. They start swinging their sabers ateach other. This time Rey is keeping up. Ushara RUSHES atthem, Rey splits her saber in two, using the second blade todeflect Ushara's blade.
A blue blade impales Ushara. She's FLUNG away. Ben.
Hattaska PULLS the second blade from Rey with the force. HePUSHES the two away. Orasha and Rataka come to his aid. Thefive stand off. REY RUSHES AT THEM! Cutting Rataka in half.
Ben JUMPS at Hattaska, as they start dueling.
Orasha RUSHES at Rey and like a BAT, he SWINGS HIS SABER AT
HER! Rey extends her hand, and with the force, she PUSHES THE

BLADE AWAY! She lifts her own blade and SWINGS IT AT HIM!
He falls over. Dead.

Hattaska is giving Ben a hard time. Rey rushes at them! SHE: Hattaska's headless body falls over.
Rey turns to Ben.

PALPATINE: Excellent.
They turn to Palpatine. They approach him, both have ignitedsabers.

Palpatine raises his hand. The two FLY OFF THE GROUND,
dropping their lightsabers.

PALPATINE: A dyad in the force. Not seen formillennia.

PALPATINE: THE TWO RESTORE THE ONE TRUE
EMPEROR.
THE ELECTRICITY REVERSES! LIFE IS SUCKED OUT OF THE TWO.
Palpatine becomes like he was before The Clone Wars. His skinis no longer gray, it's full of life. His eyes RED AS FIRE,
HIS HAIR NUTTY BROWN. He's young no older than 30.
He drops the two. They're exhausted, on the brink of death.
Palpatine laughs manically. Then in a sinister look, turns toBen.

PALPATINE: Look at what you have created.
As i once fell, so falls the LAST
SKYWALKER.
Ben is picked off the ground and FLUNG BACK! He falls downone of the pits, through the fog.
Rey tries to get up, but fails. She falls.
Palpatine looks at her, almost a pitiful look in his eyes.
Then he laughs. He looks up through the hole in the celling,to the heavens above.

PALPATINE: My followers, DO NOT FEAR THIS
FEEBLE ATTEMPT! THE SITH SHALL

RULE!
All sound disapears.
KRAKABOOM!
GIANT LIGHTNING EMITS FROM HIS HANDS. ALL THE PENT UP ENERGY
FROM THE PLANET RELEASES ALL AT ONCE!

The storm EXPLODES! Lightning TRAVELS ACROSS THE ENTIRE
GALAXY!

LIGHTNING ENGULFS THE ENTIRE GALAXY.

A violent storm tosses everything around. Lightning strikesships! Sending them crashing.

A giant storm. The water is rising. Buildings are collapsing.

EVERYTHING IS BEING DESTROYED BY PALPATINES POWER! VIOLENT
STORMS ARE SPREADING THROUGHOUT THE GALAXY!

Every single Resistance ship is COVERED in lightning. Theyall lose control and start falling to the ground.

All the ships start falling. Each other them struck bypowerful bolts of lightning.

POE: What's happening! BB-8!
BB-8 SCREAMS as he's being electrocuted.

Hux is smiling cheekily as he watches the thousands of shipsfall to the ground.

Palpatine is laughing like a maniac, as he's electrocutingthe ENTIRE GALAXY.
Rey is lying on the ground, on the brink of death, looking upto the stars.

REY: (whisper)
Be with me...
She looks far into space. She pleads.

REY: (whisper)
Stay with me.
The camera moves beyond mortis, beyond the clouds, beyond thestorm.

Stars. Like how all Star Wars films start.

REY: Help me.

OBI WAN: Rey. These are your final steps.

Rise and take them.

ANAKIN SKYWALKER: Rey.

QUI GON JIN: Rey.

ASHOKA TANO: Rey.

MACE WINDU: Rey. Rise.

ANAKIN SKYWALKER: Bring back the balance like i did.
Whispers of the Jedi of old.

YODA: Rey. Inside you, all Jedi live.

LUKE: REY. RISE.

Rey picks up her lightsaber. WITH ALL HER WILLPOWER! SHE
RISES. She's surrounded by JEDI GHOSTS! She looks indisbelief. Luke smiles at her and nods.
Palpatine stops shooting lightning. He looks down at her indisgust.

THE STORM STOPS! All ships regain control.

POE: Here we go!

Palpatine looks down at Rey and all the force ghosts.

PALPATINE: What a feeble attempt on my life.
You're too late! I AM IMMORTAL!
HE RAISES HIS HANDS! HE SHOOTS LIGHTNING! Rey deflects itwith her lightsaber, she starts to slide back.
But Luke puts a hand on her shoulder. She glances at him. Hegives her a reassuring look.
She starts to stand her ground. More Jedi join. SupportingRey.
Ben Solo PULLS himself out of the pit he was thrown into. Hecrawls onto the ground. His jaw drops when he sees it. Reystanding with THOUSANDS OF JEDI GHOSTS. He reaches for hislightsaber...
But it's gone. He looks to the left and sees the second halfof Rey lightsaber. He PULLS IT WITH THE FORCE, GRABS IT! HE
BOLTS TOWARDS REY!
REY IS BARELY HOLDING AGAINST THE IMMENSE LIGHTNING!

PALPATINE: YOU CANNOT STOP ME! I AM ALL THE
SITH!

REY: (strained)
AND... WE...
We hear steps. Running. Ben GLIDES TO A STOP! He ignites thesecond lightsaber and SWINGS IT TO REY! Forming an X.

BEN: Are all the Jedi.
Luke and Anakin put their hands on Ben's shoulders...
Then...
ALL THE FORCE GHOSTS START FLYING THROUGH THEM! they turninto a beam of pure light! SHOOTING RIGHT INTO PALPATINE!
ALL LIGHTNING IS DEFLECTED DIRECTLY INTO THE FACE OF
PALPATINE!
PALPATINE
NO! NO!
HIS FACE IS SLOWLY BURNT AWAY! THE JEDI GHOSTS PASS RIGHT
THROUGH HIM

PALPATINE: NO!
HE DISINTEGRATES!
KABOOOOOOOOOOOOOM! All light disapears.

The storm clears. What was once a luscious forest is now adesolate wasteland, yet some life survives. It's bright. Thesun is shining. Parts of the temple top crumble.

It's eerily quiet. Rey and Ben are lying at the foot of thethrone.
Ben moves slightly. His eyes go WIDE open. He looks to Rey.
She's dead. All life faded from her eyes, her skinunnaturally pale.

BEN: Rey?
She doesn't response. Ben's eyes fill with resolve. He puts ahand on her chest. Closes his eyes. The little life energy hehas left fades.
Ben opens his eyes. The color slowly returns to Rey's skin.
Her eyes open. They make eye contact, one last time.
Then he falls to the ground. Rey gets up.

REY: Ben.
He smiles at her. His eyes close. He fades to nothing.
Leaving his clothes empty. He's one with the force.
Tears flow down her cheeks.
She gets up, looks to the gate, where Luke's X-wing isparked.

Hux watches the chaos unfold. He looks up, the RING iscollapsing. He's lost THE STAR WARS.
A bridge officer turns to him.

BRIDGE OFFICER: Sir?
Hux remains silent.

BRIDGE OFFICER: Sir?

HUX: Evacuate.
He turns, HE RUNS.

Hux BOLTS in. He looks around the room, there he sees it. Thegolden lightsaber. He runs to it, THROWS THE GLASS CASE AWAY.
He picks up the lightsaber. Puts it to his stomach, andIGNITES IT. A PURPLE BLADE PIERCES HIM! HE FALLS TO HIS
KNEES. In front of his circular window, he dies.

The stormtroopers are losing the battle, the battle hascalmed to a silent roar. Suddenly a LOUD CLICK. Finn looks upat the Capitol.
GIANT ENGINES EXTEND FROM WITHIN THE SHIP. THEY FIRE UP! The154.
GIANT ENGINES EXTEND FROM WITHIN THE SHIP. THEY FIRE UP! Theentire capitol lifts off the ground, ITS A SPACESHIP!

FINN: The capitol!
BOOM! A laser bolt flies and HITS R2!

3PO: R2!
R2 is charred and sparking. His main computer shuts down.
FINN

NO!
Finn rushes to R2.

3PO: We need to save him Master Finn! I don't know what I'll do withouthim!

FINN: We'll do what we can.
3PO puts a hand on R2.

3PO: R2. Please be okay.

POW! An escape pod is SHOT out of the ship. It falls down andlands in the middle of the square. The hatch opens and ROSE: stumbles out.
FINN

ROSE!
He runs to her.

ROSE: Finn!
She looks at the ship.

FINN

The capitol, it'sROSE: A ship. I made some adjustments tothe navacomputer. If that thingjumps into hyperspace...
The capitol jumps to lightspeed. The moment it does...
BOOOMMMM!!!
IT COLLIDES WITH THE ORBITAL RING!

The entire shipyard RUPTURES. Every ship is destroyed as thering collapses.

POE: WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT!

ROSE: ...It'll blow up.

Leia shields her eyes from the ENORMOUS EXPLOSION. She looksat the destruction.
Radio contact instantly CRACKLES TO LIFE.
A CACOPHONY OF VOICES fill the frequency waves, calling ontheir brethren to fight.

LEIA: We did it.

LANDO: We did it.

FINN

WE DID IT!
People GO WILD! Cheering and celebrating!

Poe swings his X-wing around, towards the fleet.

POE: Everyone! Let's go home!

The ships land again! Poe runs out and hugs everyone he sees.

FINN: POE!
He turns around.
FINN.

POE

Finn buddy! YOU DID IT!
They run to each other and hug. Rose approaches them. Poeturns to her.

POE: Rose. You... Thank you.
He hugs her. They're all overjoyed.
Poe pulls away.

POE: Where's Rey?

FINN: We don't know. She hasn't arrivedyet.
Then, an X-wing flies into the hangar. It's an old AllianceX-wing, one belonging to a Jedi master.

POE: I KNOW that X-wing!
The hatch opens, and Rey steps out.
POE/FINN/ROSE

REY!
They run to her, and her to them. They all meet in a grouphug.

FINN: What happened?

REY: Palpatine. He's dead.
Poe grabs her, and kisses her. A passionate kiss. Likethey're lovers that have been separated for YEARS.
Rose and Finn step back, holding hands.

LANDO: How are you lovebirds doing?

They turn around. Lando.

LANDO: (crying)
You did it.
He laughs and cries at the same time. He hugs each otherthem. Everyone in the hangar is celebrating.
WIPE TO:

Poe, Finn, Rose and Lando are all looking at the setting sun.
People are celebrating like wild, in the distance we can hearcheers and music.

REY: He's goneThe CAMERA turns, into...

Rey is sitting next to Leia who's lying in a bed. Chewbaccais fixing R2 next 3PO.

LEIA: I know. I felt it.

REY: He saved me.
Leia puts a loving hand on her cheek.

LEIA: Thank you. All of you.
Lando, Poe, Rose and Finn approach.

LANDO: You can rest now. Princess.
Chewie closes a hatch on R2 and presses a button.
R2 BEEPS TO LIFE.
As his files catalogue into chronological order, he projectsthe contents of his memory banks.... ...and we witness theiradventures over 60 years, all from the droids perspective.
--Luke buying C-3PO from the Jawas...
--Obi Wan giving Luke his fathers lightsaber...
--R2 flying through the Death Star trench...
--Han getting his medal on Yavin...
--Yoda lifting the X-Wing from the swamp...
--Luke saluting from the plank on Jabbas barge...
--Leia and Han outside the bunker on Endor...
Leia is taken aback by the flood of memories. It is acatharsis for her, and for us. She takes a deep breath.

LEIA: Thank you R2.
He holds out a hand for Chewie, which he takes. They shareone last look.
Then her eyes close, and she becomes one with the force.
Fading into nothing, leaving her bed empty. She's dead.
Tears start flowing down Lando's cheeks. Finn and Poe lowertheir head in sadness. Rey remains silent and Rose startscrying.
The camera continues over the balcony.

CLOUD CITY: Celebrating the end of the war.

People are celebrating. Statues are being toppled. Theiroppression is over.

Gungans and humans are celebrating as one! In the skies abovewe see the wrecks of massive Star Destroyers.

Ewoks look in wonder at the smoldering remains of a StarDestroyer, pierced by lightspeed.

People are celebrating.

The shipyards are EXPLODE! Pieces of Star Destroyers GO
EVERYWHERE!

The entire galaxy is celebrating. After decades of eviloppression, they've been freed once and for all. The lastremnants of the First Order will be fought and destroyed.

MANY YEARS LATER...
A group of energetic children are running around, and playingwith BB-8, R2 and 3PO on a small plaza in front of a big,overgrown pyramid. The sun is shining, and the sky is abeautiful blue.

REY: Kids! Get into line. We have a longday ahead of us.

REY SOLANA, wearing brand new Jedi robes, walks over to thechildren who excitedly run toward her.
Chewie and Lando are watching from afar as Rose, Poe and Finnapproach. Poe holds her as they share a kiss, both of themare wearing a small silver ring.

POE: You're doing great.

REY: Thanks.
She turns around, looks beyond the children, to the entranceof the temple. Smiles at the sight.
Luke and Leia, Force Ghosts watching over her, great pride intheir eyes.

REY: You all have your crystals. Now youneed to construct your ownlightsaber.
She takes out her own lightsaber, ignites it. The childrenare wowed. She lets the children be for now and walks over toPoe, Finn, Rose, Lando and ChewieON THE HORIZON.
A large blue bay is surrounded by a small city. Ships leaveand arrive at the small space port.
The group forms a silhouette against the colorful landscape.
Here Rey will train a new generation of Jedi and pass downall she knows. Create balance once again. At last, there'speace...

THE END

ROGUE ONE

A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away....

Opens on a shot of a planet which pans up to a view of planetary rings with a small ship flying through them. Switches to a shot of the planet Lahmu and the ship flying through the rings. A shot of the planet closer up with the ship flying towards the surface. The ship flies down across a farm and passes by a white worker droid, who watches the ship. Cuts to a young Jyn Erso running across the rocky plain with the ship following behind her.

INT. ERSO HOMESTEAD (Inside the Erso homestead)

YOUNG JYN ERSO: Mama.

LYRA ERSO: We know. Jyn, gather your things, its time.

The ship lands near the Erso homestead. Lyra contacts Saw Gerrera.

SAW GERRERA: Hello.

LYRA ERSO: Saw, its Lyra. Its happened. Hes come for us.

SAW GERRERA: You know what to do.

GALEN ERSO: Jyn, come here. Remember, whatever I do, I do it to protect you. Say you understand.

Galen embraces Jyn and the two stand still for a few moments.

YOUNG JYN ERSO: I understand.

GALEN ERSO: I love you, Stardust.

YOUNG JYN ERSO: I love you too, Papa.

LYRA ERSO: Galen...

GALEN ERSO: Go.

EXT. ERSO HOMESTEAD (Outside the home)

LYRA ERSO: Jyn. You know where to go, dont you? Trust the Force.

Lyra takes off a pendant and hands it over to her daughter, fastening it around her neck.

In front of the Erso home stands Director Orson Krennic flanked by Deathtroopers. Galen confronts Krennic.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Youre a hard man to find, Galen. But farming? Really, a man of your talents?

GALEN ERSO: Its a peaceful life.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Its lonely, I imagine.

GALEN ERSO: Since Lyra died, yes.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Oh. Oh. My condolences. Search the house!

DEATHTROOPER: Understood.

GALEN ERSO: What is it you want?

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: The work has stalled, I need you to come back.

GALEN ERSO: I wont do it, Krennic.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Were on the verge of greatness. We were this close to providing peace, security for the galaxy.

GALEN ERSO: Youre confusing peace with terror.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Do I, huh? You have to start somewhere.

GALEN ERSO: Ill be of no help, Krennic. My mind just isnt what it was. I have trouble remembering, even simple things.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Galen, youre an inspired scientist but youre a terrible liar. Now I admire the effort, I really do.

Lyra emerges from the grass, holding a blaster.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Oh look, heres Lyra back from the dead. Its a miracle.

Lyra aims her blaster at Krennic.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Stop!

Deathtroopers aim their weapons at Lyra as she approaches.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Oh, Lyra. Troublesome as ever.

LYRA ERSO: Youre not taking him.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: No, of course Im not. Im taking you all. Youll all come. You, your child, Youll all live in comfort.

LYRA ERSO: As hostages.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: As heroes of the Empire.

GALEN ERSO: Lyra. Put it down. Think very carefully.

LYRA ERSO: You will never win.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Do it.

(A deathtrooper shoots Lyra right as she hits Krennic in the shoulder. Lyra falls down dead.)

GALEN ERSO: Lyra! No!

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: They have a child. Find it!

Deathtroopers march off to find Jyn. One of them picks up a stormtrooper toy that she had dropped. Jyn hides in a cave and climbs into a secret hatch. Deathtroopers walk by but don't see the hatch and leave. Later, the hatch is opened. Jyn sees the face of Saw Gerrera peering down at her.

SAW GERRERA: My child. Come. Come. We have a long ride ahead of us.

Theme song plays as the camera slowly reveals the title.

ROGUE ONE: A STAR WARS STORY

Jyn wakes up in an Imperial prison cell. Her cellmate snores loudly on the bunk opposite. She wipes her face with a cloth and stares through the bars.

STORMTROOPER: Check in, security. Cell block 4227. 4227.

A stormtrooper walks past, checking on the cell. Cuts to a large asteroid with a trading outpost built on top of it.

RING OF KAFRENE: TRADING OUTPOST

A busy street is full of people and aliens. Cassian Andor pushes through the crowd and then ducks into an alleyway where he meets Tivik, an informant.

TIVIK: I was about to leave.

CASSIAN ANDOR: I came as fast as I could.

TIVIK: I have to get back on board. Walk with me.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Back to Jedha?

TIVIK: Theyll leave without me!

CASSIAN ANDOR: Easy. You have news from Jedha? Come on.

TIVIK: An Imperial pilot, one of the cargo drivers. He defected yesterday. Hes telling people theyre making a weapon. The kyber crystals, thats what theyre for.

CASSIAN ANDOR: What kind of weapon?

TIVIK: Look, I have to go.

CASSIAN ANDOR: What kind of weapon?

TIVIK: A planet killer. Thats what he called it.

CASSIAN ANDOR: A planet killer?

TIVIK: Someone named Erso sent him. Some old friend of Saws.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Galen Erso? Was it?

TIVIK: I dont know! They were looking for Saw when we left.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Who else knows this?

TIVIK: I have no idea! Its all falling apart. Saws right, therere spies everywhere.

A pair of stormtroopers appears in the alleyway.

STORMTROOPER 1: Whats all this?

STORMTROOPER 2: Come on, lets see some scandocs.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Yeah, of course. My gloves?

Cassian pulls a blaster and kills the stormtroopers.

TIVIK: No! Whatve you done?

STORMTROOPER 3: Troopers down, section 9.

Cassian quickly nods towards a wall lined with sticking out wires and tubes.

TIVIK: Are you crazy? Ill never climb out of here. My arm...

A squad of stormtroopers races towards the place of the incident.

STORMTROOPER: Get out of the way. Move! Move!

CASSIAN ANDOR: Calm down. Calm down. Well be all right.

Cassian pretends to comfort Tivik but shoots him in the back. As the stormtroopers approach, he manages to climb up the wall and disappear before they can see him.

JEDHA: IMPERIAL OCCUPIED MOON

MILITIA: Sir.

A group of Militia are walking across a desert with a prisoner. The Militia pulls a bag off of the head of Bodhi Rook, a defected Imperial Pilot.

BODHI ROOK: Is that him? He looks kind of different than I imagined.

MILITIA: On your feet! Its the pilot, the defector.

BODHI ROOK: Okay, so youre--youre Saw Gerrera? Saw Gerrera. No? Okay, were just wasting time that we dont have. I need to speak to Saw Gerrera! I keep telling them before, before its too late.

EDRIO TWO TUBES: Keep your heads down! The Imperials will be searching for him

BODHI ROOK: Were out here in the middle of nowhere. We need to get to Jedha City. What part of urgent message do you guys not understand? Hey! were all on the same side, if you just see past the uniform for a minute. Ive got to speak to ah... Ive got to speak to Saw Gerrera.

He continues mumbling as a bag is put on his head again and he is pulled away.

WOBANI: IMPERIAL LABOR CAMP

INT. TRANSPORT (Inside a transport)

Jyn, in restraints, is sitting amongst other prisoners in a transport guarded by stormtroopers. The transport suddenly stops.

STORMTROOPER: What now?

STORMTROOPER 2: I dont know. Must be another pick up.

STORMTROOPER 1: I thought we had everybody.

The door to the transport bursts open and Rebel Alliance soldiers file in, killing the stormtroopers.

SOLDIER: All clear, sir.

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: Hallik! Liana Hallik!

SOLDIER: Her.

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: You want to get out of here?

Jyn nods as she is freed from her restraints.

PRISONER: Hey! What about me?

Jyn kicks the Rebel, grabbing a shovel, and hits the other soldiers out of the way before jumping out of the transport. However, at the exit she is grabbed and chokeslammed to the ground by a tall Imperial droid, K-2SO.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Congratulations.You are being rescued. Please do not resist.

YAVIN 4: REBEL BASE

The camera shifts from the gas giant Yavin to its small satellite Yavin 4.

PA: LU-28, report to maintenance level 4.

INT. MASSASSII REBEL BASE (Inside the temple)

Jyn is led to a table where members of the Rebel council are assembled. She sits down, uncomfortable.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Youre currently calling yourself Liana Hallik. Is that correct? Possession of unsanctioned weapons, forgery of Imperial documents, aggravated assault,escape from custody, resisting arrest. Imagine if the Imperial authorities had found out who you really were. Jyn Erso? Thats your given name, is it not? Jyn Erso? Daughter of Galen Erso. A known Imperial collaborator in weapons development.

JYN ERSO: What is this?

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Its a chance for you to make a fresh start.

Cassian Andor appears from behind a wall and approaches the meeting.

CASSIAN ANDOR: We think you might be able to help us.

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: This is Captain Cassian Andor, Rebel Intelligence.

CASSIAN ANDOR: When was the last time you were in contact with your father?

JYN ERSO: 15 years ago.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Any idea where hes been all that time?

JYN ERSO: I like to think hes dead, makes things easier.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Easier than what? That hes being a tool of the Imperial war machine?

JYN ERSO: Ive never had the luxury of political opinions.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Really? When was your last contact with Saw Gerrera?

JYN ERSO: Its been a long time.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Hed remember you, though, wouldnt he? He might agree to meet you, if you came as a friend.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Were up against the clock here, girl, so if theres nothing to talk about, well just put you back where we found you.

JYN ERSO: I was a child, Saw Gerrera saved my life. He raised me. But Ive no idea where he is. I havent seen him in years.

CASSIAN ANDOR: We know how to find him, thats not our problem. What we need is someone who gets us through the door without being killed.

JYN ERSO: Youre all rebels, arent you?

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Yes, but Saw Gerreras an extremist. Hes been fighting on his own since he broke with the Rebellion. His militancy has caused the Alliance a great many problems. We have no choice now but to try to mend that broken trust.

JYN ERSO: What does this have to do with my father?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Theres an Imperial defector in Jedha. A pilot. Hes being held by Saw Gerrera. Hes claiming the Emperor is creating a weapon with the power to destroy entire planets. The pilot says he was sent by your father.

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: We need to stop this weapon before it is finished.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Captain Andors mission is to authenticate the pilots story and then, if possible, find your father.

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: It appears he is critical to the development of this superweapon. Given the gravity of the situation and your history with Saw,were hoping that he will help us locate your father and return him to the Senate for testimony.

JYN ERSO: And if I do it?

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Well make sure you go free.

EXT. MASSASSII REBEL BASE (Outside the temple)

Jyn and Cassian approach a vessel stationed on a landing pad. General Draven calls out to Cassian from a distance.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Captain Andor!

Cassian approaches him, leaving Jyn behind. She climbs into a U-Wing sitting on the landing pad and sees the droid she's been rescued by.

INT. U-WING (Inside a U-Wing)

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Im K-2SO. Im a reprogrammed Imperial droid.

JYN ERSO: I remember you.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: I see the Council is sending you with us to Jedha.

JYN ERSO: Apparently so.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: That is a bad idea. I think so, and so does Cassian. What do I know? My specialty is just strategic analysis.

Outside the ship, Draven confronts Cassian while Jyn isn't there.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Galen Erso is vital to the Empires weapon program. Forget what you heard in there, there will be no extraction. You find him, you kill him. Then and there.

INT. U-WING (Inside the U-Wing)

Cassian climbs inside the U-Wing and looks at its passengers.

CASSIAN ANDOR: You met Kay-Tu?

JYN ERSO: Charming.

CASSIAN ANDOR: He tends to say whatever comes into his circuits. Its a by-product of the reprogram.

Jyn loads a blaster and spins it in her hands. K-2SO looks at her, alarmed.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Why does she get a blaster, and I dont?

Cassian turns around sharply.

CASSIAN ANDOR: What?

JYN ERSO: I know how to use it.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Thats what Im afraid of. Give it to me.

JYN ERSO: Were going to Jedha. Thats a war zone.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Thats not the point. Where did you get it?

JYN ERSO: I found it.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: I find that answer vague and unconvincing.

JYN ERSO: Trust goes both ways.

Cassian sighs and hops into the pilot seat.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Youre letting her keep it? Would you like to know the probability of her using it against you? Its high.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Lets get going.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Its very high.

The U-Wing takes off and leaves Yavin 4.

PARTISAN BASE ON JEDHA

The camera slowly moves up to reveal Saw Gerrera, a man-machine with a respirator and a prosthetic leg. Bodhi is brought before him and he still has the sack on his head.

SAW GERRERA: Lies! Deceptions! Lets see it. Bodhi Rook. Cargo pilot. Local boy, huh?

BODHI ROOK: Uh-huh.

Edrio passes Saw a holopad that had been taken from Bodhi earlier.

EDRIO TWO TUBES: This was found in his boot when he was captured.

BODHI ROOK: Okay, I can hear you. He didnt capture me, I came here myself. I defected, I defected.

SAW GERRERA: Every day, more lies.

BODHI ROOK: Lies? Would I risk everything for a lie? No, we dont have time for this! I have to speak to Saw Gerrera before its too late.

The sack is pulled off of Bodhis head. He shakes his head and blinks at the sight of Saw.

BODHI ROOK: Okay... So, you... Um. Uh.Thats-Thats for you. And I gave it to them, they did not find it! I gave it to them. Galen Erso. He told me to find you.

SAW GERRERA: Bor Gullet.

Saw nods to Edrio and Bodhi visibly begins panicking,

BODHI ROOK: Bor Gullet? Galen Erso sent me! He told me to find you!

His voice is muffled and confused as the sack is pulled over his head again and he is dragged away.

STAR DESTROYER "EXECUTRIX" (A Star Destroyer overlooking the construction of the Death Star)

A TIE fighter flies towards what looks like the stars but reveals itself as an Imperial Star Destroyer. Behind the ISD, an even more massive structure emerges from the darkness - the Death Star.

Imperial officers sit in command pits on both sides of the bridge. Director Krennic approaches Grand Moff Tarkin who is standing with his back to the camera as he watches the construction of the Death Star. Tarkin turns around to face the camera.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: Most unfortunate about the security breach on Jedha, Director Krennic. After so many setbacks and delays, and now this. Weve heard word of rumors circulating through the city. Apparently youve lost a rather talkative cargo pilot. If the Senate gets wind of our project, countless systems will flock to the Rebellion.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: When the battle station is finished, Governor Tarkin, the Senate will be of little concern.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: When has become now, Director Krennic. The Emperor will tolerate no further delay, you have made time an ally of the Rebellion. I suggest, we solve both problems simultaneously with an immediate test of the weapon. Failure will find you explaining why to a far less patient audience.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: I will not fail.

Krennic turns around and signals to his bodyguards to flank him as he leaves. Tarkin watches the superlaser being set into place, completing the Death Star.

Inside Jyns dream, she sees herself as a little girl. Her father is still an Imperial officer on Coruscant. He is drinking and laughing together with a younger Krennic. She is peering into the room and her father walks over to her and picks her up, placing her in bed. There are blurred visions of her mother, Lyra.

GALEN ERSO: Whats the matter, Jyn? You looked frightened. Ill always protect you. Stardust. Dont ever change.

LYRA ERSO: Trust...

LYRA ERSO: Galen.

Jyn wakes up inside the U-Wing and blinks as Cassian speaks up.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Were coming into orbit. You have controls.

The U-Wing lands in front of a view of the Holy City of Jedha with a Star Destroyer hovering in the sky just above it. Multiple smaller shuttles and TIE fighters are going back and forth between the destroyer and the city. The two rebels and the droid disembark and get on the ground to look at the city through binoculars.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Thats Jedha. Or whats left of it. We find Saw, we find your father.

JYN ERSO: Whats with the Destroyer?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Its because of your old friend, Saw Gerrera. Hes been attacking the cargo shipments.

JYN ERSO: What are they bringing in?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Its what are they taking out? Kyber crystal. All they can get. We wondered why they were stripping the temple, now we know.Its the fuel for the weapon.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO], coming out of the U-Wing: The weapon your fathers building.

JYN ERSO: Maybe we should leave target practice behind.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Are you talking about me?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Shes right. We need to blend in. Stay with the ship.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: I can blend in. Im an Imperial droid. This city is under Imperial occupation.

JYN ERSO: Half the people here want to reprogram you. The other half want to put a hole in your head.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Im surprised youre so concerned with my safety.

Jyn walks past him, slamming a bag into his hands as she walks by.

JYN ERSO: Im not. Im just worried they might miss you and hit me.

K-2SO drops the bag on the ground as they leave.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Doesnt sound so bad to me.

INT. PARTISAN BASE (In the Partisan base.)

Bodhi is strapped to a chair. A strange bloblike alien with long tentacles emerges from the darkness. Bodhi shivers and tries moving back, but fails. He watches in horror as the alien approaches.

SAW GERRERA: Bor Gullet can feel your thoughts, No lie is safe. What have you really brought me, cargo pilot? Bor Gullet will know the truth. The unfortunate side effect, is that one tends to lose ones mind.

Bor Gullets tentacles begin to wrap around Bodhi and stroke his head, reaching into his thoughts.

BODHI ROOK: Nooo...

(In the Holy City of Jedha)

Cassian and Jyn walk through a crowd in a narrow street. Jyn accidentally bumps into Dr. Evazan and Ponda Baba, who turn to them, annoyed.

DR. CORNELIUS EVAZAN: Hey, you just watch yourself.

CASSIAN ANDOR: No, no. Tourist, we dont want any trouble, sorry. Come on. Come on.

A squad of stormtroopers is seen distributing holopads with the face of Bodhi Rook on them and questioning citizens.

STORMTROOPER: Citizens of Jedha, you must come forward with information of the location of this missing cargo pilot. A reward of 600 credits for the information shall be awarded.

CASSIAN ANDOR: I had a contact, one of Saws rebels, but hes just gone missing. His sister will be looking for him. The temples been destroyed but shell be there waiting. Well give her your name and hope that gets us a meeting with Saw.

JYN ERSO: Hope?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Yeah. Rebellions are built on hope.

The squad of stormtroopers approaches a citizen and is about to search their house. The citizen protests inaudibly in an alien language.

STORMTROOPER: Hands where I can see them. Get over there! Show me some identification. Check inside.

JYN ERSO: Is this all because of your pilot?

She notices Chirrut Imwe, blind and dressed in monk-like robes, sitting beside the street.

CHIRRUT MWE: May the Force of others be with you. May the Force of others be with you.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Wait for me.

Cassian walks off, leaving Jyn standing there.

CHIRRUT MWE: May the Force of others be with you. May the Force of others be with you.

CHIRRUT MWE: Would you trade that necklace for a glimpse into your future? (Jyn turns around and comes closer, alarmed and interested). Yes, Im speaking to you. I am Chirrut mwe.

JYN ERSO: How did you know I was wearing a necklace?

CHIRRUT MWE: For that answer you must pay. What do you know of kyber crystals?

JYN ERSO: My father, he said they powered the Jedi lightsabers.

Cassian returns and finds her talking to Chirrut.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Jyn. Come on, lets go.

CHIRRUT MWE: The strongest stars have hearts of kyber.

Cassian pulls Jyn away as Chirrut speaks.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Lets go. Were not here to make friends.

JYN ERSO: Who are they?

CASSIAN ANDOR: The Guardians of the Whills. Protectors of the Kyber Temple. But theres nothing left to protect, so now theyre just causing trouble for everybody.

JYN ERSO: You seem awfully tense all of a sudden.

CASSIAN ANDOR: We have to hurry. This town, its ready to blow.

Cassian and Jyn push quickly throught the crowd when they notice a heavily guarded Imperial transport move along the street. Jyn looks up to see armed people waiting on the roofs and several more hiding in the pathways next to the main street. She looks at Cassian nervously.

STORMTROOPER 1: Citizens of the Empire, Imperial forces...

A partisan throws a thermal detonator underneath the tank accompanying the transport. The tank explodes and Partisans begin fighting the stormtroopers. Chaos begins as people run away and firing begins. Jyn and Cassian hide behind a wall, blasters ready.

JYN ERSO: Tell me you have a backup plan.

STORMTROOPER 1: Incoming!

STORMTROOPER 2: Put your guns down.

STORMTROOPER 1: Behind us!

JYN ERSO: Looks like we found Saws rebels.

Jyn sees a small child standing under a tall tower, crying. She runs to save her and covers her with her body as the two fall to the ground. A partisan shoots the stormtroopers from the top of the tower.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Jyn, no!

The childs mother quickly arrives and takes her daughter.

MOTHER: Thank you.

STORMTROOPER: Hit the tower!

CITIZEN: Get out of there!

A stormtrooper aims a rocket at the tower and fires. Jyn barely makes it out and runs to cover. Next to the ruins of the tank, partisans gather to take out something from the transport.

PARTISAN: Quickly, the kyber, get it. Here, take the kyber. Take the kyber. Come on!

CASSIAN ANDOR: This way!

They are surprised by an Imperial droid that looks exactly like K-2SO. Jyn shoots it and it falls to the ground. K-2SO walks out from behind it. K-2SO looks startled.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Did you know that wasnt me?

JYN ERSO: Of course!

CASSIAN ANDOR: I thought I told you to stay on the ship.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: You did, but I thought it was boring, and you were in trouble. There are a lot of explosions for two people blending in.

A grenade sails towards K-2SO, but he catches it without looking and throws it backwards towards a group of stormtroopers.

STORMTROOPER: Freeze right there...

The grenade explodes, killing the entire squad of stormtroopers. Jyn and Cassian exchange looks.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Youre right, I should just wait on the ship.

Cassian, Jyn and K-2SO walk into a clearing with multiple stormtroopers.

STORMTROOPER: Halt! Stop right there!

STORMTROOPER: Where are you taking these prisoners?

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: These are prisoners.

STORMTROOPER: Yes. Where are you taking them?

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: I am taking them... to imprison them. In prison.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Hes taking us to...

K-2SO slaps Cassian.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Quiet! And theres a fresh one if you mouth off again!

STORMTROOPER: Well take them from here.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Thats okay. If you could just point me in the right direction, I can take them, Im sure. Ive taken them this far

The stormtroopers grab Jyn and Cassian and cuff them to take them away. The two struggle to break free.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Hey, wait a second.

STORMTROOPER: Take them away.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Wait!

STORMTROOPER: Hey, droid. You cant take them away! You stay here. We need to check your diagnostics.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Diagnostics? Im capable of running my own diagnostics, thank you very much.

Chirrut emerges from a doorway, drawing the attention of stormtroopers, and walks towards them, tapping his staff on the ground.

CHIRRUT MWE: Let them pass in peace! Let them pass in peace. The Force is with me, and I am with the Force. And I fear nothing, for all is as the Force wills it.

STORMTROOPER 1: Hey! Stop right there!

STORMTROOPER 2: Hes blind.

STORMTROOPER 1: Is he deaf?

STORMTROOPER 2: I said: Stop right there!

Chirrut stops, listening closely to the stormtroopers movements. As they begin firing, he waits for the right moment and springs into action, easily beating up the stormtroopers. He is impossible to hit and dodges every shot directed at him, covering himself with other

CHIRRUT MWE: Is your foot all right?

Chirrut knocks down the last stormtrooper, but many more surround him. Suddenly, rapid blaster fire kills all the stormtroopers. It has come from Chirruts friend, Baze Malbus.

CHIRRUT MWE: You almost shot me.

BAZE MALBUS: Youre welcome.

Cassian, Jyn and K-2SO emerge from a hiding spot.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Clear of hostiles!

Baze aims his blaster at K-2SO at the sight of an Imperial droid.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: One hostile!

Jyn jumps out in front of K-2SO with her arms in the air.

JYN ERSO: Hes with us!

CHIRRUT MWE: Theyre all right.

K-2SO removes their handcuffs.

JYN ERSO: Thanks.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Cassian, Im sorry about the slap.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Go back to the ship. Wait for my call.

K-2SO leaves obediently. Cassian turns to Baze, rubbing his wrists.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Is he a Jedi?

BAZE MALBUS: There are no Jedi here anymore. Only dreamers like this fool.

CHIRRUT MWE: The Force did protect me.

BAZE MWE: I protected you.

JYN ERSO: Can you get us to Saw Gerrera?

CHIRRUT MWE: Cant you see we are no friends of the Empire?

The Partisans suddenly surround the group. The rebels are disarmed and handcuffed again.

EDRIO TWO TUBES: Tell that to the one who killed our men.

JYN ERSO: Anyone who kills me or my friends will answer to Saw Gerrera.

EDRIO TWO TUBES: And why Is that?

JYN ERSO: Because I am the daughter of Galen Erso.

EDRIO TWO TUBES: Take them!

Sacks are put over everyones heads.

CHIRRUT MWE: Are you kidding me? Im blind!

INT. PARTISAN BASE (Inside the prison cells in the Partisan base.)

Chirrut, Baze and Cassian are thrown into a cell all together. In the next cell is Bodhi Rook, silently staring into space.

CHIRRUT MWE: Im one with the Force and the Force is with me. Im one with the Force and the Force is with me.

BAZE MALBUS: You pray?

CHIRRUT MWE: Im one with the Force and the Force is with me.

BAZE MALBUS: Really?

CHIRRUT MWE: Im one with the Force and the Force is with me.

BAZE MALBUS: Hes praying for the door to open.

CHIRRUT MWE: It bothers him, because he knows it is possible. Baze Malbus was once the most devoted Guardian of us all.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Im beginning to think the Force and I have different priorities.

BAZE MALBUS: Relax, Captain. Weve been in worse cages than this one.

CASSIAN ANDOR: This is a first for me.

CHIRRUT MWE: There is more than one sort of prison, Captain, I sense that you carry yours wherever you go.

Outside of the prison, Jyn is taken to meet Saw Gerrera in his command room.

SAW GERRERA: Jyn. Is it really you? I cant believe it.

JYN ERSO: Must be quite a surprise.

SAW GERRERA: Are we not still friends?

JYN ERSO: The last time I saw you, you gave me a knife and loaded blaster and told me to wait in a bunker until daylight.

SAW GERRERA: I knew you were safe.

JYN ERSO: You left me behind.

SAW GERRERA: You were already the best soldier in my cadre.

JYN ERSO: I was sixteen.

SAW GERRERA: I was protecting you!

JYN ERSO: You dumped me!

SAW GERRERA: You were the daughter of an Imperial science officer! People were starting to figure that out. People who wanted to- to use you as a hostage. Not a day goes by that I dont think of you. But today, of all days? Its a trap, isnt it?

JYN ERSO: What?

SAW GERRERA: The pilot! The message. All of it. Did they... send you? Did you come here to kill me? Theres not much of me left.

JYN ERSO: The Alliance wants my father. They think hes sent you a message about a weapon. I guess they think by sending me you might actually help them out.

SAW GERRERA: So what is it that you want, Jyn?

JYN ERSO: They wanted an introduction, theyve got it. Im out now. The rest of you can do what you want.

SAW GERRERA: You care not about the cause?

JYN ERSO: The cause? Seriously? The Alliance? The... The rebels? Whatever it is youre calling yourself these days? All its ever brought me is pain.

SAW GERRERA: You can stand to see the Imperial flag reign across the galaxy?

JYN ERSO: Its not a problem if you dont look up.

SAW GERRERA: I have something to show you, come.

The two walk towards a holopad lying on the floor.

Switches to shot of Jedha City. The Star Destroyer is seen leaving the city, followed by numerous TIE fighters and smaller craft. The citizens look up in surprise as they hear its engines whirring to life.

INT. DEATH STAR (On the Death Star)

Grand Moff Tarkin and Director Krennic stand in the control room in front of a giant screen with the city of Jedha pictured on it.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: The Emperor is awaiting my report.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: One had hoped that he and Lord Vader might have been here for such an occasion.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: And I thought it prudent to save you from any potential embarrassment.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Your concern is hardly warranted.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: If saying it would only make it so.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: All Imperial forces have been evacuated, and I stand ready to destroy the entire moon.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: That wont be necessary. We need a statement, not a manifesto. The Holy City will be enough for the day.

KRENNIC: Target Jedha City, prepare single reactor ignition.

Gunners get in their positions and prepare to fire.

CAPTAIN DUNSTIG PTERRO: Sir, were in position, ready to...

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Fire!

Pterro walks off to give the command to his officers.

CAPTAIN DUNSTIG PTERRO: Commence primary ignition.

INT. PARTISAN BASE (In the Partisan prison)

CHIRRUT MWE: Whos the one in the next cell?

CASSIAN ANDOR: What? Where?

Baze looks through the hole in the wall and sees Bodhi.

BAZE MALBUS: An Imperial pilot.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Pilot?

BAZE MALBUS: Im going to kill him!

Baze starts trying to break the bars separating the two cells.

CASSIAN ANDOR: No, no, no, wait!

BAZE MALBUS: Come here!

CASSIAN ANDOR: NO!

BAZE MALBUS: Back off. Back off.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Okay.

Cassian tries to talk to Bodhi in a calmer voice, but Bodhi keeps staring into space and mumbling.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Are you the pilot? Hey, hey are you the pilot? The shuttle pilot? Pilot?

CHIRRUT MWE: Whats wrong with him?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Galen Erso. You know that name?

BODHI ROOK: I brought the message, Im the pilot. Im the pilot. Im the pilot.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Okay, good. Now where is Galen Erso?

INT. DEATH STAR (On the Death Star)

GUNNER: Standby.

The camera pans to show levers being pulled. A gunner raises his hand and drops it as a signal. A bright array of lights comes on across the control panel. The Death Star eclipses the sun over Jedha. A blinding green ray emerges from the reactor as two gunners manning it turn away to cover their eyes.

INT. PARTISAN BASE (In the Partisan base)

SAW GERRERA: This is the message I was sent.

The holoprojector lights up and a hologram of Galen Erso appears.

GALEN ERSO: Saw, if youre watching this, then perhaps there is a chance to save the Alliance. Perhaps theres a chance to explain myself and, though I dont dare hope for too much, a chance for Jyn, if shes alive, if you can possibly find her to let her know that my love for her has never faded and how desperately Ive missed her. Jyn, my Stardust, I cant imagine what you think of me. When I was taken, I faced some bitter truths. I was told that, soon enough, Krennic would have you as well. As time went by, I knew that you were either dead or so well hidden that he would never find you. I knew if I refused to work, if I took my own life, it would only be a matter of time before Krennic realized he no longer needed me to complete the project. So I did the one thing that nobody expected: I lied. I learned to lie. I played the part of a beaten man resigned to the sanctuary of his work. I made myself indispensable, and all the while I laid the groundwork of my revenge. We call it the Death Star. There is no better name. And the day is coming soon when it will be unleashed. Ive placed a weakness deep within the system. A flaw so small and powerful, theyll never find it. But, Jyn. Jyn, if youre listening My beloved, so much of my life has been wasted. I try to think of you only in the moments when Im strong, because the pain of not having you with me Your mother. Our family. The pain of that loss is so overwhelming I risk failing even now. Its just so hard not to think of you. Think of where you are. My Stardust. Saw, the reactor module, thats the key. Thats the place Ive laid my trap. Its well hidden and unstable, one blast to any part of it will destroy the entire station.

The Death Star blasts the Holy City of Jedha, vaporising it in an instant.

GALEN ERSO: Youll need the plans, the structural plans for the Death Star to find the reactor. I know theres a complete engineering archive in the data vault at the Citadel Tower on Scarif. Any pressurized explosion to the reactor module will set off a chain reaction that will destroy the entire station...

The hologram cuts off because of the earthquake going through the Partisan base due to the Death Stars fire. Jyn falls to her knees, crying. The partisans guarding the cells scream and scatter, leaving the prisoners behind. The three manage to break the lock and free themselves.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Go. Go!

Cassian screams into his comlink.

CASSIAN ANDOR: K-2? K-2, where are you?

The camera reveals K-2SO in the U-Wing, staring at the explosion of Jedha. A huge earthquake is lifting rubble high into the air and the shockwave is coming closer to his location.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: There you are. Im standing by as you requested. Although theres a problem on the horizon. There is no horizon.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Locate our position. Bring that ship in here now!

Cassian breaks off from the group and runs off.

CHIRRUT MWE: Where are you going?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Ive got to find Jyn. Get the pilot. We need him.

BAZE MALBUS: All right. Ill get the pilot.

Baze walks up to Bodhi's cell.

BAZE MALBUS: Pilot.

He aims his blaster at Bodhi.

BODHI ROOK: No, no, no!

He fires but the blaster hits the cell door, freeing Bodhi.

BAZE MALBUS: Lets go.

Cassian finds Jyn with Saw in the control room. She is still on the floor, shocked by the hologram.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Jyn! Weve got to go. I know where your father is.

SAW GERRERA: Go with him, Jyn. You must go.

JYN ERSO: Come with us.

SAW GERRERA: I will run no longer.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Come on.

JYN ERSO: But you must save yourself.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Come on.

SAW GERRERA: Go! Theres no time! Save the Rebellion! Save the dream!

Jyn and Cassian run off. Saw limps over to the window, rips his oxygen mask off and silently watches the shockwave.

INT. DEATH STAR (On the Death Star)

The staff and officers watch the giant screen in the control room as it shows them the destruction of Jedha City. Krennic looks up in awe with a distant smile.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Oh. Its beautiful.

EXT. PARTISAN BASE (Outside the Partisan base)

Partisans are seen running off and screaming as the shockwave comes closer.

BAZE MALBUS: Chirrut, lets go!

CASSIAN: Come on! Lets get out of here!

They all pile into the U-Wing. Bodhi barely makes it on board as they close the door.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Get us out of here! Punch it!

K-2SO is at the controls, starting the hyperdrive.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Im not very optimistic about our odds.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Lets not, K. Come on! Punch it.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: I havent completed my calculations.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Ill make them for you.

Cassian grabs the hyperdrive lever and pulls it sharply. The U-Wing shifts into hyperspace and zips away from Jedha seconds before the rubble from the shockwave destroys the mountain.

INT. DEATH STAR (On the Death Star)

The officers talk quietly amongst themselves. Krennic walks by Tarkin, intentionally shoving him in the shoulder.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: I believe I owe you an apology, Director Krennic. Your work exceeds all expectations.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: And youll tell the Emperor as much?

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: I will tell him his patience with your misadventures has been rewarded with a weapon that will bring a swift end to the Rebellion.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: That was only an inkling of its destructive potential.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: I will tell him that I will be taking control over the weapon I first spoke of years ago, effective immediately.

Krennic's face turns into a grimace. He starts yelling at Tarkin.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: We stand here amid my achievement, not yours!

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: Im afraid these recent security breaches have laid bare your inadequacies as a military director.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: The breaches have been filled, Jedha has been silenced.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: You think this pilot acted alone? He was dispatched from the installation on Eadu. Galen Ersos facility.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Well see about this.

Krennic walks off angrily, flanked by his death troopers. Tarkin turns away and pulls a smile.

INT. MASSASSII REBEL BASE (In the Rebel base on Yavin 4)

Rebel communication experts sit at a control panel when one of them receives a message. He turns to General Draven.

REBEL: A coded message from Captain Andor, sir. Weapon confirmed. Jedha destroyed. Mission target located on Eadu. Please advise.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Destroyed? Proceed. Tell him my orders still stand. Tell him to proceed with haste and keep to the plan. We have no idea what he is building for the Empire. We have to kill Galen Erso while we have the chance.

INT. U-WING (In hyperspace, in the U-Wing.)

The group sits solemnly in the U-Wing.

CHIRRUT MWE: Baze, tell me. All of it? The whole city? Tell me.

BODHI ROOK: All of it.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Understood. Set a course for Eadu.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Setting course for Eadu.

JYN ERSO: Is that where my father is?

CASSIAN ANDOR: I think so.

BODHI ROOK: So youre Galens daughter.

JYN ERSO: You know him?

BODHI ROOK: Im Bodhi, the pilot.

JYN ERSO: You brought the message.

BODHI ROOK: Yes, your father... He said I could get right by myself. He said I could make it right, if I was brave enough and listened to what was in my heart. Do something about it. Guess it was too late.

JYN ERSO: It wasnt too late.

BODHI ROOK: Seems pretty late to me.

JYN ERSO: No. We can beat the people who did this. My fathers message, Ive seen it.They call it the Death Star. But they have no idea theres a way to defeat it. Youre wrong about my father.

CASSIAN ANDOR: He did build it.

JYN ERSO: Because he knew theyd do it without him. My father made a choice. He sacrificed himself for the Rebellion. Hes rigged a trap inside it. Thats why he sent you. To bring that message.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Where is it? Wheres the message?

JYN ERSO: It was a hologram.

CASSIAN ANDOR: You have that message, right?

JYN ERSO: Everything happened so fast.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Did you see it?

JYN ERSO: You dont believe me.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Im not the one youve got to convince.

CHIRRUT MWE: I believe her.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Thats good to know.

BAZE MALBUS: What kind of trap? You said your father made a trap.

JYN ERSO: The reactor. Hes placed a weakness there. Hes been hiding it for years. He said if you can blow the reactor- the module- the whole system goes down. You need to send word to the Alliance.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Ive done that.

JYN ERSO: They have to know theres a way to destroy this thing. They have to go to Scarif to get the plans.

CASSIAN ANDOR: I cant risk sending that. Were in the heart of Imperial territory.

JYN ERSO: Then well find him. And bring him back, and he can tell them himself.

INT. DEATH STAR (On the Death Star)

Krennic stands next to Pterro, visibly nervous.

CAPTAIN DUNSTIG PTERRO: Course set for Eadu, sir.

EADU: IMPERIAL RESEARCH FACILITY

The U-Wing flies carefully through the rainy, dark canyons of Eadu. Cassian and K-2SO pilot the ship, dodging constantly to avoid crashing.

CHIRRUT MWE: Im one with the Force and the Force is with me.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: 20 degrees to the right. 10 degrees up.

BODHI ROOK: No, no, no, lower. Lower!

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Are you sure this is the way?

BODHI ROOK: They have landing trackers. They have patrol squadrons. Youve got to stay in the canyon, keep it low.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Watch your right!

The U-Wing manoeuvres carefully between the canyons, barely avoiding a collision with a cliff.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Theres a 26% chance of failure.

CASSIAN ANDOR: How much farther?

BODHI ROOK: I dont know. Im not sure, I never really come this way, but were close, were close. I know that.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Well, now theres a 35% chance of failure.

BODHI ROOK: I dont want to know, thank you.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: I understand.

BODHI ROOK: Now! Put it down now!

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: The wind...

BODHI ROOK: If you keep going, youll be right over the shuttle depot. Watch out!

The U-Wing hits its engine on a rock and the ship begins to fall.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Hey!

CASSIAN ANDOR: Hold on tight! Were coming down hard!

The U-Wing lands roughly in a dark canyon. A ridge separates them from the bright lights of the Imperial facility.

INT. MASSASSII REBEL BASE (On Yavin 4)

Draven and a rebel try to contact Cassian, but there's no signal. Draven slaps his hand on the table impatiently.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Try them again.

REBEL: I am, sir. We... The signals gone dead.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Squadron up, target Eadu.

EADU (On Eadu)

The group is trying to fix the U-WIng and get it back in the air, but nothing seems to work.

BODHI ROOK: How about now, check stabilizers?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Bodhi, wheres the lab?

BODHI ROOK: The research facility?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Yeah. Where is it?

BODHI ROOK: Its just over the ridge.

CASSIAN ANDOR: And thats a shuttle depot straight ahead of us? You are sure of that?

BODHI ROOK: Yes. Well have to hope theres still an Imperial ship left to steal.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Heres what were doing. Hopefully, the storm keeps up and keeps us hidden down here. Bodhi, youre coming with me. Well go up the ridge and check it out.

JYN ERSO: Im coming with you.

CASSIAN ANDOR: No, your fathers message, we cant risk it. Youre the messenger.

JYN ERSO: Thats ridiculous. We all got the message. Everyone here knows it.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: One blast to the reactor module and the whole system goes down. Thats how you said it. The whole system goes down.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Get to work fixing our comms! All I want to do right now is get a handle on what were up against.So, were going to go very small and very carefully up the rise and see whats what. Lets get out of here.

Cassian pulls up his hood and disappears in the rain.

CHIRRUT MWE: Does he look like a killer?

BAZE MALBUS: No. He has the face of a friend.

JYN ERSO: Who are you talking about?

CHIRRUT MWE: Captain Andor.

JYN ERSO: Why do you ask that? What do you mean, does he look like a killer?

CHIRRUT MWE: The Force moves darkly near a creature thats about to kill.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: His weapon was in the sniper configuration.

Jyn goes pale and dashes off into the rain.

EXT. ROCKY RIDGE (On a rocky ridge.)

BODHI ROOK: No, no, no... We got to go up. You cant see much from down there. This way.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Ill be right behind you. Come on.

The two go over the ridge overlooking the Imperial facility and Cassian looks for a good spot.

INT. U-WING (In the crashed U-Wing.)

Chirrut is about to climb out of the craft when Baze stops him.

BAZE MALBUS: Where are you going?

CHIRRUT MWE: Im going to follow Jyn. Her path is clear.

BAZE MALBUS: Alone? Good luck!

CHIRRUT MWE: I dont need luck, I have you!

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: What are they doing? If Cassian comes back, were leaving without them.

EXT. IMPERIAL RESEARCH FACILITY - RIDGE OVERLOOK (On a ridge overlooking the Imperial Research Facility.)

Cassian and Bodhi finally settle on the ridge and look at the facility through binoculars.

CASSIAN ANDOR: You see Erso out there?

Switches to Baze and Chirrut climbing the rocks somewhere in the area.

BAZE MALBUS: Weve come too far.

CHIRRUT MWE: Patience, my friend.

Bodhi spots

BODHI ROOK: Thats him. Thats him, Galen, in the dark suit.

A shuttle zooms overhead, showering water over the two. They duck to avoid being caught in its headlights.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Get back down there, and find us a ride out of here.

BODHI ROOK: What are you doing?

CASSIAN ANDOR: You heard me.

BODHI ROOK: You said we came up here just to have a look.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Im here, Im looking. Go. Hurry!

EXT. IMPERIAL RESEARCH FACILITY - LANDING PLATFORM (On the landing platform in front of the research facility.)

Krennics shuttle lands and he walks out, flanked by deathtroopers, heading towards a group of stormtroopers and engineers.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Excellent news, Galen. The battle station is complete. You must be very proud.

GALEN ERSO: Proud as I can be, Krennic.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Gather your engineers, I have an announcement.

Switches to a shot of Jyn running across the ridge to the giant staircase that goes up to the facility. Back on top, a group of engineers steps forward nervously.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Is that all of them?

GALEN ERSO: Yes.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Gentlemen. One of you betrayed the Empire. One of you has conspired with a pilot to send messages to the Rebellion. And I urge that traitor step forward.

The engineers whisper and murmur amongst themselves. Krennic waits. Seeing that no one replies, he gestures to his troopers.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Very well, Ill consider it a group effort, then. Ready!

The deathtroopers raise their blasters.

ENGINEER 1: No.

ENGINEER 2: No, please.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Aim... and...

The troopers stand with their rifles aimed.

ENGINEER: No, no!

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Fire!

Just before the shooting begins, Galen jumps in front of his engineers to stop him. Cassian watches through the scope, aiming at Galen's head, but doesn't shoot.

GALEN ERSO: Stop! Stop! Krennic, stop. It was me. It was me. They have nothing to do with it. Spare them.

Krennic pauses, looking at him, then turns to his troopers.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Fire!

The engineers scream and fall under the fire. Krennic slaps Galen across the face and he falls to the ground.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: How do I know the weapon is complete?

GALEN ERSO: Let me share with you some details.

Jyn climbs the onto the platform using the ladder and throws a stormtrooper down into the abyss. Cassian watches the scene through his scope and notices her when K-2SO comes in over the comlink.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Cassian. Cassian, can you hear me?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Im here. You got it working.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Affirmative yes, although we have a problem! Theres an Alliance squadron approaching.

Switches to a shot of the canyon, then pans to show an X-WIng squadron approaching the facility.

REBEL PILOT: Clear the area!

CASSIAN ANDOR: No. No, no, no! Tell them to hold up! Jyns on that platform!

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Jedha. Saw Gerrera. His band of fanatics. Their Holy City. The last reminder of the Jedi. Gone.

GALEN ERSO: Youll never win.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Now where have I heard that before?

K-2SO attempts to reach the rebel base to delay the attack. On Yavin 4, a rebel comms expert calls General Draven to come over.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Relay from Captain Andor.

REBEL: General.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Captain Andor requesting a delay on squadron support. Alliance forces onsite. Please confirm.

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: Get the squadron leader on, get him on now!

REBEL: Theyre already engaged, sir.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Jyn. No.

The rebel squadron begins shooting at the platform and there are several explosions. Baze stares at the attack in horror. On the platform, Krennic and his troops take cover. Jyn sneaks by, unnoticed, and hides behind a container.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Return fire! To your stations! Get our fighters in the air now!

In the chaos, Galen gets up and Jyn runs out towards him.

JYN ERSO: Father!

Krennic and Galen hear her at the same time and turn around. Krennic pulls out his blaster but before he can shoot, an explosion rocks the platform, knocking all three to the ground. TIE fighters burst out of hangars and engage the X-Wings. There are instantly several casualties on both sides. A few Imperial gunners are seen in an ion cannon as they shoot down a rebel craft.

STORMTROOPER 1: Go, go, go, go!

STORMTROOPER 2: Fall back! Fall back!

Captain Pterro runs up to Krennic and helps him up. They begin hurrying to the shuttle, guarded by death troopers. Switches to Chirrut mwe, who breathes in his hand, then pulls a bow off his shoulder, aims and fires blindly at a TIE fighter, shooting it down and directing the falling fighter at the ion cannon, which explodes in flames.

CAPTAIN DUNSTIG PTERRO: Director, we need to evacuate.

Jyn gets up slowly and runs across the burning platform to her father, who has been wounded in the explosion. She kneels by his side, but Krennic's shuttle takes off and pours water all over her. She loses her balance and slides across the platform, almost falling into a hole made by the explosions. She crawls back up and runs to her father, kneeling by his side.

JYN ERSO: Papa. Papa, its me. Its Jyn.

GALEN ERSO: Jyn. Stardust.

JYN ERSO: Papa. Ive seen your message. The hologram, Ive seen it.

GALEN ERSO: It must be destroyed.

JYN ERSO: I know. I know. We will.

GALEN ERSO: Jyn. Look at you. Ive so much to tell you.

He goes silent and his hand falls from hers as he closes his eyes. Jyn's eyes fill with tears.

JYN ERSO: Papa. No. No. Papa! Papa! Come on.

Stormtroopers emerge from the facility and are about to begin shooting.

STORMTROOPER: Over there, take them down.

Cassian's shots take the troopers down and he runs over to Jyn to take her away.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Come on. Jyn, weve got to go. Come on.

JYN ERSO: I cant leave him.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Listen to me. Hes gone. Theres nothing you can do. Come on.

JYN ERSO: I cant leave him.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Come on! Help me. Move!

More stormtroopers appear and the pair ducks into cover as the stormtroopers are mowed down by Baze.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Down!

CASSIAN ANDOR: Come on. Come on.

Cassian and Jyn make their way to the stolen Imperial cargo shuttle that hovers in the air, taking down the stormtroopers chasing them. In the cabin, K-2SO and Bodhi pilot the shuttle.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Well done. Youre a Rebel now.

All the rebels get into the shuttle and Bodhi helps them up the ramp.

BODHI ROOK: Lets go, lets go. Come on, lets move! Come on, lets get out of here. Move, move, move. Okay, K-2, lets go.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Copy that.

The shuttles takes off as the Imperial facility bursts into flames in the background. It shakes violently in the storm raging over Eadu.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Ion thrusters low until we cleared the storm.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Understood.

Jyn walks over to Cassian inside the shuttle and confronts him.

JYN ERSO: You lied to me.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Youre in shock.

JYN ERSO: You went up there to kill my father.

CASSIAN ANDOR: You dont know what youre talking about.

JYN ERSO: Deny it.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Youre in shock, and looking for someplace to put it. Ive seen it before.

JYN ERSO: I bet you have. They know. You lied about why we came here and you lied about why you went up alone.

CASSIAN ANDOR: I had every chance to pull the trigger. But did I? Did I?

JYN ERSO: You might as well have. My father was living proof and you put him at risk. Those were Alliance bombs that killed him!

CASSIAN ANDOR: I had orders. Orders that I disobeyed. But you wouldnt understand that.

JYN ERSO: Orders? When you know theyre wrong? You might as well be a stormtrooper.

CASSIAN ANDOR: What do you know? We dont all have the luxury of deciding when and where we want to care about something. Suddenly the Rebellion is real for you? Some of us live it. Ive been in this fight since I was 6 years old. Youre not the only one who lost everything. Some of us just decided to do something about it.

JYN ERSO: You cant talk your way around this.

CASSIAN ANDOR: I dont have to. Yavin Four! Make sure they know were coming in with a stolen ship. Anybody else?

Switches to a shot of the planet Mustafar, following Krennic's shuttle that is heading to a pyramid-shaped building standing on the edge of a cliff with lava streaming down it. The shuttle lands on a landing platform and the camera switches to a blast door in front of which a hooded man stands. The door slides open and the man walks in to a dark room with Royal Guards by the door and a bacta tank in the center. The man, who is Vader's servant Vanee, kneels down in front of the tank.

VANEE: My lord, Director Krennic has arrived.

The bacta fluid level drops and the camera reveals Vader's body suspended in the tank. Vanee turns away as Vader begins breathing. Switches to a grand hallway in the castle. Krennic waits anxiously as the sliding door opens and Vader walks out to meet him.

DARTH VADER: Director Krennic.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Lord Vader.

DARTH VADER: You seem unsettled.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: No. Just pressed for time. Therere a great many things to attend to.

DARTH VADER: My apologies. You do have a great many things to explain.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Ive delivered the weapon the Emperor requested. I deserve an audience to make certain he understands its remarkable potential.

DARTH VADER: Its power to create problems has certainly been confirmed. A city destroyed. An Imperial facility openly attacked.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: It was Governor Tarkin that suggested the test.

DARTH VADER: You were not summoned here to grovel, Director Krennic.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: No, its...

DARTH VADER: There is no Death Star. The Senate has been informed that Jedha was destroyed in a mining disaster.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Yes, my lord.

DARTH VADER: I expect you to not rest until you can assure the Emperor that Galen Erso has not compromised this weapon in any way.

Vader starts walking away. Krennic takes a small pause.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: So Im still in command? Youll speak to the Emperor about

He stops abruptly, grabs himself by the collar and falls to his knees, choking. Vader extends a hand and turns around.

DARTH VADER: Be careful not to choke on your aspirations, Director.

YAVIN 4

The Rebellion's war council is gathered at a large table in the command centre. Rebel senators and leaders argue while pilot squads and technicians crowd around, murmuring nervously.

SENATOR TYNNRA PAMLO: We must scatter the fleet. We have no recourse but to surrender.

BAIL ORGANA: Are we really talking about disbanding something that weve worked so hard to create?

ADMIRAL RADDUS: We cant just give in.

SENATOR VASP VASPAR: We joined an Alliance, not a suicide pact!

BAIL ORGANA: Weve only now managed to gather our forces.

SENATOR NOWER JEBEL: Gather our forces? General Dravens already blown up an Imperial base!

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: A decision needed to be made.

SENATOR TYNNRA PAMLO: If its war you want, youll fight alone!

SENATOR VASP VASPAR: If thats the way its going, why have an Alliance at all?

ADMIRAL RADDUS: If shes telling the truth, we need to act now!

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Councilors, please!

ANTOC MERRICK: It is simple, the Empire has the means of mass destruction. The Rebellion does not.

SENATOR NOWER JEBEL: A Death Star, this is nonsense.

JYN ERSO: What reason would my father have to lie? What benefit would it bring him?

GENERAL DAVITS DRAVEN: To lure our forces into a final battle. To destroy us once and for all.

SENATOR VASP VASPAR: To risk everything, based on what? The testimony of a criminal? The dying words of her father, an Imperial scientist?

SENATOR NOWER JEBEL: Dont forget the Imperial pilot.

JYN ERSO: My father gave his life so that we may have a chance to defeat this.

GENERAL JAN DODONNA: So youve told us.

SENATOR TYNNRA PAMLO: If the Empire has this kind of power, what chance do we have?

JYN ERSO: What chance do we have? The question is What choice? Run? Hide? Plead for mercy? Scatter your forces? You give way to an enemy this evil with this much power and you condemn the galaxy to an eternity of submission. The time to fight is now!

REBEL 1: Yes!

JYN ERSO: Every moment you waste is another step closer to the ashes of Jedha.

REBEL 1: What is she proposing?

REBEL 2: Just let the girl speak!

JYN ERSO: Send your best troops to Scarif. Send the whole rebel fleet if you have to. We need to capture the Death Star plans if there is any hope of destroying it.

SENATOR TYNNRA PAMLO: Youre asking us to invade an Imperial installation based on nothing but hope?

Jyn's voice trembles and she looks like she's about to shed a tear.

JYN ERSO: Rebellions... Are built on hope.

SENATOR VASP VASPAR: There is no hope!

ADMIRAL RADDUS: I say we fight.

SENATOR NOWER JEBEL: I say the Rebellion is finished!

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Im sorry, Jyn. Without the full support of the council, the odds are too great.

The councilors whisper inaudibly. Bail Organa looks defeated. Jyn pushes through the crowd and leaves, followed by glances. After a momentary pause, Bodhi rushes after her. The meeting scatters, murmuring in disapproval.

In the main hangar, Jyn makes her way to Baze and Chirrut, looking angry.

DISTANT PA: General Syndulla, please report to the briefing room.

BAZE MALBUS: You dont look happy.

JYN ERSO: They prefer to surrender.

BAZE MALBUS: And you?

CHIRRUT MWE: She wants to fight.

BODHI ROOK: So do I. We all do.

CHIRRUT MWE: The Force is strong.

JYN ERSO: Im not sure four of us is quite enough.

BAZE MALBUS: How many do we need?

JYN ERSO: What are you talking about?

Cassian appears from behind her with a group of about thirty rebels.

CASSIAN ANDOR: They were never going to believe you.

JYN ERSO: I appreciate the support.

CASSIAN ANDOR: But I do. I believe you. Wed like to volunteer. Some of us... ... most of us, weve done terrible things on behalf of the Rebellion. Were spies. Saboteurs. Assassins. Everything I did, I did for the Rebellion. And every time I walked away from something I wanted to forget I told myself it was for a cause that I believed in. A cause that was worth it. Without that, were lost. Everything weve done would have been for nothing. I couldnt face myself if I gave up now. None of us could. It wont be comfortable.

BODHI ROOK: Itll be a bit cramped, but well all fit. We could go.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Okay. Gear up. Grab anything thats not nailed down. Go, go, go!

The rebels scatter to gather weapons and supplies. Jyn stands still with a weak smile on her face.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Jyn. Ill be there for you.

She smiles at him. K-2SO looks as displeased as a droid can be.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Cassian said I had to.

JYN ERSO: Im not used to people sticking around when things go bad.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Welcome home.

Jyn and Cassian return to the Imperial shuttle they had arrived on.

DISTANT PA: Bravo team to the Intelligence office for extraction mission report.

Once they're inside, the assembled rebel screw stands up to greet them

JYN ERSO: May the Force be with us.

There are several cheers and small applause from the team. The shuttle door closes.

FLIGHT CONTROLLER: Cargo shuttle, read back, please. Whats going on out there? That ships off limits. No one is suppose to be on board until farther instructions.

Jyn sits next to Bodhi, concerned and nudging him to talk to the controller.

BODHI ROOK: Yes, yes we are. Affirmative.

FLIGHT CONTROLLER: Thats an impounded Imperial ship. Whats your call sign, pilot?

BODHI ROOK: Um.

Jyn looks up at him and mouths,

JYN ERSO: We have to go.

BODHI ROOK: It-Its um...

JYN ERSO: Say something. Come on.

BODHI ROOK: Rogue... Rogue One.

FLIGHT CONTROLLER: Rogue One? There is no Rogue One.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Well, there is now.

BODHI ROOK: Rogue One, pulling away.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Pulling away.

The shuttle takes off and leaves Yavin 4. Switches to a brief shot of the flight control tower with a rebel officer watching them leave. The gas giant Yavin is seen in the background. Switches to a shot of Mon Mothma and Bail Organa walking through the HQ.

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Despite what the others say, war is inevitable.

BAIL ORGANA: Yes, I agree. I must return to Alderaan to inform my people that there will be no peace. We will need every advantage.

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Your friend, the Jedi.

BAIL ORGANA: He served me well during the Clone Wars and has lived in hiding since the Emperors purge. Yes, I will send for him.

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Youll need someone you can trust.

BAIL ORGANA: I would trust her with my life.

He turns around and leaves, greeting captain Antilles on his way.

BAIL ORGANA: Captain Antilles, I have a mission for you.

CAPTAIN RAYMUS ANTILLES: Senator.

The shuttle sails through hyperspace with engines whooshing loudly. It jumps out of hyperspace and the camera pans to follow it across the surface of the large tropical planet of Scarif. A blockade of two Star Destroyers and a defensive shield hangs above the surface.

BODHI ROOK: Okay, were coming in. Theres a planetwide defensive shield with a single main entry gate. This shuttle should be equipped with an access code that allows us through.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Assuming, the Empire hasnt logged it as overdue.

BODHI ROOK: Or stolen.

JYN ERSO: And if they have?

BODHI ROOK: Then, they shut the gate and were all annihilated in the cold, dark vacuum of space.

The shuttle passes under the massive hull of a Star Destroyer.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Not me, I can survive in space.

BODHI ROOK: Okay. Here it goes.

He contacts the shield gate via comms.

BODHI ROOK: Cargo shuttle SW-0608 requesting a landing pad.

SHIELD GATE OFFICER: Cargo shuttle SW-0608, youre not listed on the arrival schedule.

BODHI ROOK: Acknowledged, Gate Control. We were rerouted from Eadu Flight Station. Transmitting clearance code now.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Transmitting.

There is a tense silence as they wait for clearance. Jyn pulls out the necklace her mother gave her, smiles and closes her eyes. Cassian climbs up the ladder and looks anxiously at Bodhi.

SHIELD GATE OFFICER: Cargo shuttle SW-0608? You are cleared for entry.

Bodhi immediately lets out a relieved cry.

BODHI ROOK:Yes!

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Impressive.

JYN ERSO: Ill tell the others.

BODHI ROOK: Okay.

She goes down the ladder as Bodhi pilots the shuttle through the shield gate. There is an announcement of a tractor beam test in the background as they descend.

FLIGHT CONTROLLER: SW-0608 clear for landing pad 9. Acknowledge, please.

BODHI ROOK: SW-0608 proceeding to LP9 as instructed.

The shuttle gets closer to the surface and a tall pyramidal tower with a dish at the top comes into view.

CASSIAN ANDOR: The main building down there, what is it?

BODHI ROOK: Thats the Citadel Tower. They keep all the Imperial structure archives in there. If the plans are anywhere, theyll be there.

CASSIAN ANDOR: The dish at the top? Whats it for?

BODHI ROOK: I guess it takes a lot of signals to send those data files out.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Landing track engaged.

BODHI ROOK: Landing track locked.

Downstairs, Jyn notices the rebels silently sitting in the hold of the shuttle, all looking tense and worried. She catches Baze's eye as Cassian climbs down to make an announcement.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Were landing. Were coming in!

Jyn gets up, swallows, and starts speaking to lift the morale. As she begins, rebels lift their heads to listen.

JYN ERSO: Saw Gerrera used to say, one fighter with a sharp stick and nothing left to lose can take the day. They have no idea were coming. They have no reason to expect us. If we can make it to the ground, well take the next chance. And the next. On and on until we win... or the chances are spent. The Death Star plans are down there. Cassian, K2, and I will find them. Well find a way to find them.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Melshi, Pao, Baze, Chirrut, youll take main squad, move east and get wide of the ship. Find a position between here and the tower. Once you get to the best spot, light the place up. Make ten men feel like a hundred.

BAZE MALBUS: All right.

CASSIAN ANDOR: And get those troopers away from us.

BODHI ROOK: What should I do?

CASSIAN ANDOR: Keep the engine running. Youre our only way out of here.

The shuttle finally lands on LP 9 and an inspection team of an officer, flight controller and two stormtroopers walks out to meet them.

LANDING PAD OFFICER: Cargo shuttle SW-0608, be prepared to receive inspection team.

JYN ERSO: Ready?

Bodhi opens the door to the shuttle and the inspection team sees nothing but an empty cargo hold.

LANDING PAD OFFICER: Hello.

BODHI ROOK: Hey, youre probably looking for a manifest.

LANDING PAD OFFICER: That would be helpful.

BODHI ROOK: Its just down here.

Bodhi smiles and points to the ladder leading downstairs.

At the same time, Krennic's shuttle emerges from hyperspace and descends into the shield gate. Krennic is on board with his bodyguards.

PILOT: Director Krennic, we are entering the Scarif shield gate. General Ramda has been informed of your arrival.

On Scarif, two rebels are seen dragging the body of a stormtrooper into the shuttle. Jyn and Cassian are putting on their disguise uniforms. Once they're done, Jyn walks out to say goodbye to the crew. She holds Chirrut's hands and he smiles. Baze puts a gentle hand on her shoulder.

BAZE MALBUS: Good luck, little sister.

They both smile softly. Cuts to Bodhi watching a few Imperials outside the shuttle. Once they turn away, he yells downstairs to the rebel crew.

BODHI ROOK: Go! Go now, youre clear!

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: All right, lets go! Come on. Move, move, move!

The rebels open a hatch at the bottom of the shuttle and jump onto the ground, scattering in their assigned positions. In turn, Jyn and Cassian in Imperial disguise and K-2SO walk out of the shuttle and head towards the elevator that will take them to the facility. As the rebels disappear into the tropical forest, K-2SO, Jyn and Cassian walk into the elevator and watch the doors close.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: I have a bad feeling about

CASSIAN ANDOR: Kay!

JYN ERSO: Quiet.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: What?

The doors close, cutting them off. The elevator slides towards the tower at the same time as Krennic's shuttle lands right next to it.

CASSIAN ANDOR: We need a map.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Well, Im sure theres one just lying about.

CASSIAN ANDOR: You know what you have to do.

The elevator door opens and they walk out into a hallway of the facility, full of Imperial officers and stormtroopers. On their way they pass a droid identical to K-2SO and exchange glances when he walks by. Meanwhile, the rebel assault team is giving out thermal detonators as they watch an Imperial hangar in the distance.

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: One per pad. Pick your spot. We want to draw them out. Ill call the timing. Go!

Stormtroopers walk across the hangar, chatting peacefully.

STORMTROOPER 1: Hey, did you hear the rumors?

STORMTROOPER 2: Yeah, the T-15s have been marked obsolete.

STORMTROOPER 1: Oh boy, its about time for that.

STORMTROOPER 2: Hey!

They don't even have time to react when Chirrut jumps out of the bushes and knocks them out with his staff, then disappears just as quickly. The rebel forces run by, unnoticed. Another stormtrooper hears someone coughing behind him and turns around to see Baze just before he is dropped to the ground. Rebels plant their detonators on the landing pads and scatter.

STORMTROOPER 1: Watch out!

STORMTROOPER 2: What the...?

The stormtrooper is electrocuted to the neck by Baze. Cuts to Krennic walking across the command centre of the tower followed by General Ramda.

GENERAL SOTORUS RAMDA: Director, what brings you to Scarif?

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Galen Erso, I want every dispatch, every transmission he has ever sent called up for inspection.

GENERAL SOTORUS RAMDA: All of them?

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Yes. All of them. Get started.

In the hallways of the facility, Jyn, Cassian and K-2SO are hiding in a small nook while K-2SO hacks into the Imperial droid they had noticed before. Both the droids' eyes start blinking. Cuts to the rebel group taking positions in front of the elevator entrance.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Kay?

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Our optimal route to the data vault places only 89 stormtroopers in our path. We will make it no more than 33% of the way before we are killed.

Jyn looks up at Cassian, worried. He pulls out a comlink and contacts Melshi.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Melshi, talk to me.

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: Ready, ready. Standing by.

Cassian looks at Jyn and she nods from behind her helmet.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Light it up.

The rebels set off their detonators and a chain reaction of explosions goes off. Stormtroopers walking by are killed instantly. Krennic, standing in the command centre, overhears the blasts and looks out the window. The officers gather around to look.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Are we blind?! Deploy the garrison! Move!

Krennic swallows nervously. Cuts to Jyn, Cassian and K-2 walk across a corridor when a battallion of stormtroopers runs past them and they move aside, realising the distraction worked. Inside the Rogue One shuttle, rebels spot the stormtroopers.

CORPORAL STORDAN TONC: Troopers! Troopers! Troopers on the left. Get in! Get in!

The rebels hide in the depths of the shuttle and stay hidden. The ones in cover emerge from behind the containers and start shooting the stormtroopers.

Int. DEATH STAR - Control Room

Grand Moff Tarkin stands in front of the large screen when General Romodi walks up.

GENERAL HURST ROMODI: Sir? Scarif base, theyre reporting a rebel incursion.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: I want to speak to Director Krennic.

GENERAL HURST ROMODI: Hes there, sir. On Scarif.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: The original plans for this station are kept there, are they not?

GENERAL HURST ROMODI: They are.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: Prepare for the jump to hyperspace and inform Lord Vader.

Tarkin pulls a smirk.

Back in the facility, the trio walks into a room where an officer is at a control panel next to the archives entrance.

OFFICER: Can I help you?

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: That wont be necessary.

K-2SO slams the officer on the head and takes control of the panel.

On Yavin 4, a rebel private runs across the whole HQ to reach Mon Mothma, Merrick and Draven, yelling.

REBEL: Senator! Senator!

Merrick grabs the soldier and stops him from reaching Mon.

GENERAL ANTOC MERRICK: Stop right there, Private!

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: Let him speak.

REBEL: Intercepted Imperial transmission, maam. Rebels on Scarif.

SENATOR MON MOTHMA: I need to speak to Admiral Raddus.

REBEL: Hes returned to his ship. Hes going to fight!

Back on Scarif, the rebels are engaging Imperial forces in a fierce battle. It is unclear who's winning. A rebel screams as he gets shot.

REBEL: No!

On Yavin 4, rebel crews are hurrying to their ships as an announcement rings across the PA. R2D2 and C3PO watch from the shadows of the hangar.

PA: Attention all flight personnel, please report to your commanders immediately. Attention all flight personnel, please report to your commanders immediately. We have been redirected to Scarif. Pilots, youll be briefed by your squadron leaders on route. May the Force be with you.

C-3PO [SEE-THREEPIO]: Scarif? Theyre going to Scarif? Why does nobody ever tell me anything, Artoo?

R2-D2 [ARTOO-DETOO]: [beeps]

Melshi and his crew are still engaged in the battle.

Move, move, move!

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: Forward! Forward!

CHIRRUT MWE: Keep drawing them out!

In the control room in the tower, Imperials are panicking as they contact their landing pads. Krennic looks desperate.

IMPERIAL 1: Pad 12 report to ground. Coming at our flank, were outnumbered.

IMPERIAL 2: Pad 12 team, whats going on down there? Status, please. All Pads report in immediately.

IMPERIAL 1: Oh no, we have rebels everywhere!

IMPERIAL 2: Were taking fire! Pad 12, Pad 14 request assistance.

Bodhi takes the opportunity and directs the Imperials away with an announcement of his own.

BODHI ROOK: This is Pad 2, Pad 2. I spot 40 rebels heading west on Pad 2. Get on there, tell him pinned down by rebels on Pad 5.

CORPORAL STORDAN TONC: This is Pad 5, were being overrun. Help us!

IMPERIAL: Pad 12, Pad 10, Pad 8, please confirm.Confirm and report. Get reinforcements down to Pad 5 immediately!

Cassian, Jyn and K-2SO are busy trying to open the archive door.

CASSIAN ANDOR: This is not working, Kay.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Right hand.

Jyn grabs Cassian's hand and presses it to the scanner. Immediately the door slides open. Back on the beach, Chirrut overhears a thumping noise and feels the ground shaking. He yells at Baze to turn around and he sees a massive AT-ACT emerging from the jungle and shooting at the rebel forces.

CHIRRUT MWE: Baze! Baze!

BAZE MALBUS: What?

CHIRRUT MWE: Run!

PAO: Karabast! AT-AT!

REBEL: Retreat! Retreat!

The rebels scatter, may falling under fire. At the same time the Rebel fleet emerges out of space over the defensive shield.

ADMIRAL RADDUS: This is Admiral Raddus of the Rebel Alliance. All Squadron leaders report in.

GENERAL ANTOC MERRICK: Admiral, this is Blue Leader standing by.

JON VANDER (GOLD LEADER): This is Gold Leader, standing by.

GARVEN DREIS (RED LEADER): This is Red Leader, standing by.

An Imperial shield crew member alerts his commander of the rebel fleet.

IMPERIAL CREW MEMBER: Sir, those are rebel ships.

IMPERIAL LIEUTENANT: Get Admiral Gorin, immediately!

Down on Scarif, Krennic has been alerted too.

LIEUTENANT MYTUS ADEMA: Director, the rebel fleet, its amassing outside the shield.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Lock down the base. Lock down.

LIEUTENANT MYTUS ADEMA: And close the shield?

LIEUTENANT ORSON KRENNIC: Do it!

In the air, the rebels are getting into formations to attack the shield and get past the blockade.

ADMIRAL RADDUS: Red and Gold squadron, attack formations. Defend the fleet. Blue squadron, get to the surface before they closed that gate.

GENERAL ANTOC MERRICK: Copy, your Admiral. Blue squadron, on me.

BARION RANER (BLUE FOUR): Copy, Blue Leader.

FARNS MONSBEE (BLUE FIVE): Copy, Blue Leader.

HEFF TOBBER (BLUE EIGHT): We wont have long.

Aboard the shield gate, officers are hurrying to lock down the base. An officer pushes a button and the gate slowly closes.

SHIELD GATE OFFICER: Close the field aperture now. Close it!

Rebel pilots racing towards the shield pull up in panic, but not all of them manage to. A few ships crash onto the surface of the shield and explode.

VANGOS GREK (BLUE SIX): Come on, come on, come on!

BARION RANER (BLUE FOUR): Pull up!

Back on Scarif, K-2SO calls out to Jyn as he intercepts transmissions.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Rebel fleet has arrived.

JYN ERSO: What?

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Theres fighting on the beach, theyve locked down the base, theyve closed the shield gate.

Jyn runs over to him and Cassian.

JYN ERSO: What does that mean? Were trapped?

Cassian gives her a grim look, and she nods solemnly.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: We could transmit the plans to the rebel fleet. Wed have to get a signal out to tell them its coming. Its the size of the data files. Thats the problem.Theyll never get through. Someone has to take that shield gate down.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Bodhi. Bodhi, can you hear me? Bodhi, tell me youre out there. Bodhi!

BODHI ROOK: Hello, Im here. Were standing by. Theyve started fighting, the base is on lockdown!

CASSIAN ANDOR: I know, listen to me! The rebel fleet is up there. Youve got to tell them to blow a hole in the shield gate so we can transmit the plans.

BODHI ROOK: Wait, I cant. Im not hooked into the comm tower. Were not tied in.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Its the only way were getting them out of here. Find a way! Cover our backs.

JYN ERSO: Youll need this. You wanted one, right?

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Your behavior, Jyn Erso, is continually unexpected.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Jyn. Come on.

The AT-ACT is preparing to fire at the remaining few rebels.

AT-AT PILOT: Fire on my command.

Baze loads a rocket launcher and fires at the neck of the AT-ACT, but the walker only flinches and lifts its head back up. However, it's instantly shot by an X-Wing coming out of nowhere with a few more following it. The rebels erupt in cheers.

BAZE MALBUS: Look!

Inside the shuttle, Bodhi prepares to make a run for it. Another rebel stops him.

BODHI ROOK: Get ready. Were going to have to go out there.

REBEL: Whatre you doing?

BODHI ROOK: They closed the shield gate, were stuck here. But, the rebel fleet is pulling in.We just have to get a signal strong enough to get through to them and let them know were trapped down here. For that, we have to connect to the communications tower. Now, I can patch us in over here, the landing pad but you have to get on the radio, get one of the guys out there to find a master switch. Get them to activate the connection between us and that comm tower.

REBEL: Okay.

BODHI ROOK: Then go!

Raddus and his crew sit aboard the Mon Calamari cruiser bridge.

ADMIRAL RADDUS: Whats going on down there, Lieutenant?

LIEUTENANT: Unknown, sir. We cant raise them. All rebel frequencies are blocked.

ADMIRAL RADDUS: Keep trying. Engage those Star Destroyers and lets start probing that shield.

LIEUTENANT: Yes, sir.

The Red squadron pilots are busy shooting at the shield gate and dodging shots from cannons built on top of it. An X-Wing is hit and goes down in flames.

GARVEN DREIS (RED LEADER): Were going in! Stay with me.

Jyn and Cassian are in a small control room in the archive tower, searching for the location of the plans. K-2SO is outside by the control panel.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Schematics bank, Data tower two.

CASSIAN ANDOR: How do I find that?

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Searching. I can locate the tape, but youll need the handles for extraction.

CASSIAN ANDOR: What are we supposed to do with these? Whoa.

They turn around to see the vault door closing. K-2SO is surrounded by stormtroopers and tries to point them away.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Well, finally.

STORMTROOPER: Wait, stop!

The trooper notices the officer on the floor.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: The rebels! They went over there.

Cassian speaks into the comlink, revealing himself.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Kay. Whats going on out there?

Before the stormtroopers can shoot, K-2 reacts.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Theres one. Oh well.

He beats up the troopers easily. Up in the sky, the bombers are preparing to attack. Just as they start the attack run, TIE fighters come in from the shield and swarm the rebel fleet.

JON VANDER (GOLD LEADER): Red Leader, this is Gold Leader, were starting our attack run on the shield gate. Keep it tight and watch out for those towers.

GOLD PILOT: More fighters. Form up, at 65.

REBEL LIEUTENANT: Sir, enemy fighters coming in.

The TIEs zoom past the Mon Cala cruiser bridge.

CORPORAL STORDAN TONC: Melshi. Melshi, come in, are you there? Bodhi will send a signal from here. Hes patching us in. But you guys have to open up a line for the tower.

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: How? Please advise.

CORPORAL STORDAN TONC: Theres a master switch to the base of the Comm tower.

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: Master switch, describe, what are we looking for?

CORPORAL STORDAN TONC: What does it look like? The master switch? Where is it?

Merrick leads his Blue Squadron into attack, covering the rebels on the beach.

GENERAL ANTOC MERRICK: Two wings, reinforce those troops on the beach. All fighters, on me. We have to shield them from air attack.

LAREN JOMA (BLUE ELEVEN): Troop reinforcements. Here we go!

A craft full of reinforcements lands and disembarks on the beach with a war cry, attacking the stormtroopers.

REBEL MARINE: For Jedha!

MARINE: Jedha!

The rebels attempting to take down the shield are having no effect on it and are still pressed by TIE fighters.

RED PILOT: We're having no effect on that shield.

BLUE PILOT: How much more can that thing take?

GARVEN DREIS (RED LEADER): Stick close, Red 5, where are you going?

PEDRIN GUAL (RED FIVE): Im trying to lose them. This is Red 5, I need help!

Red Five is caught in the scopes of a TIE pilot and goes down in flames. Up in the tower, Jyn and Cassian are going through archive after archive.

JYN ERSO: Hyperspace Tracking, Navigational Systems.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Two screens down. Structural engineering, open that one!

A stormtrooper walks in and K-2 shoots him without even looking his way. Up in the air, the battle rages on. The more advanced TIE Strikers are now chasing down the rebels.

BLUE PILOT: I got one on my tail!

BLUE TWO: Im on it.

Bodhi connects the cable to the radio while Jyn keeps rummaging through Engineering files.

JYN ERSO: Project code names: Stellarsphere. Mark Omega. Pax Aurora. War-Mantle. Cluster-Prism. Black-Saber.

She stops dead in her tracks.

CASSIAN ANDOR: What?

JYN ERSO: Stardust. Thats it.

CASSIAN ANDOR: How do you know that?

JYN ERSO: I know because its me.

Bodhi is fiddling with wires when he is surprised by a stormtrooper aiming at him.

STORMTROOPER: Hey, you. Identify yourself.

BODHI ROOK: I can explain.

STORMTROOPER: Incoming fire, take cover!

The trooper yells at his colleague but is shot down instantly by the rebels.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Kay, we need the file for Stardust!

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Stardust.

JYN ERSO: Thats it.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Kay.

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Climb. Climb. You can still send the plans to the fleet. If they open the shield gate, you can broadcast from the tower! Locking the vault door now.

His voice gets high-pitched and he starts closing the door hurriedly as a squad of stormtroopers bursts into the room shooting at him. With his last effort he punches the vault door shut.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Kay. Kay!

K-2SO [KAY-TUESSO]: Good bye.

K-2SO's eyes go dark.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Kay!

Krennic is standing at the window nervously when news arrives.

LIEUTENANT MYTUS ADEMA: Sir, unauthorized access at the data vault.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: What?

LIEUTENANT MYTUS ADEMA: Its just come in, sir.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Send my guard squadron into battle! Two men with me now! Get that beach under control!

Cassian calls out to Bodhi via comlink.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Bodhi? Are you there? Have you got the switch?

BODHI ROOK: I cant get to the shuttle, I cant plug in!

CASSIAN ANDOR: You have to! They have to hit that gate. If the shields open, we can send the plans!

Merrick is hit by a TIE Striker shot and goes down just as a Blue pilot warns him.

BLUE: General, behind you!

JYN ERSO: Step back.

Jyn shoots a hole through the glass in the control room, opening up an alternative exit. A TIE fighter hits the wing of Blue Eleven and the pilot screams.

BLUE ELEVEN: Were going down!

The beach battle rages on. No side seems to be winning so far, but a squad of death troopers arrives. Inside the tower, Jyn takes off her uniform jacket and climbs out the window. They jump over from the wall to the archives at a dazzling height.

REBEL: Come on!

BODHI ROOK: Melshi. Melshi, come in please.

SERGEANT RUESCOTT MELSHI: Im tied in at my end, I just need an open line. Hang on. The master switch, its over at that console.

REBEL: I'm going!

He peeks out, but is instantly shot by a sniper death trooper. Jyn, in turn, almost drops the data disc, but grabs it in the last moment and straps it onto her belt. Krennic is seen walking rapidly towards an elevator.

JYN ERSO: Ive got it.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Careful! You okay?

The master switch remains untouched. Chirrut emerges from his cover and walks across the battlefield, immune to all shots, as he mumbles his words like a mantra.

CHIRRUT MWE: Im one with the Force and the Force is with me. Im one with the Force and the Force is with me.

BAZE MALBUS: Chirrut!

CHIRRUT MWE: Im one with the Force and the Force is with me. Im one with the Force and the Force is with me. Im one with the Force and the Force is with me. Im one with the Force and the Force is with me. Im one with the Force and the Force is with me. Im one with the Force and the Force is with me.

BAZE MALBUS: Chirrut, come back!

Chirrut ignores it and pulls the master switch blindly.

BODHI ROOK: Yes!

CASSIAN ANDOR: Keep going. Keep going!

Jyn keeps climbing up to the exit hatch. Krennic emerges from an elevator door and, after a brief exchange, shoots Cassian and he falls off the tower onto one of the bars below.

JYN ERSO: Cassian.

BAZE MALBUS: Chirrut, come! Come with me!

Chirrut is hit by an explosion, and Baze runs to him in slow motion.

BAZE MALBUS: Chirrut! Chirrut, dont go. Dont go.

BAZE MALBUS: Im here. Im here. Its okay. Its okay.

CHIRRUT MWE: Look for the Force

BAZE MALBUS: Chirrut.

CHIRRUT MWE: and you will always find me. The Force is with me. Im one with the Force. The Force is with me. Im one with the Force. The Force is with me.

BAZE MALBUS: and Im one with the Force.

The rebel cruiser is taking heavy damage.

LIEUTENTANT: Deflector shields down to 50%, were sustaining heavy damage.

ADMIRAL RADDUS: Theres no turning back now, we have to press the attack.

GOLD LEADER: Hit that opening.

GOLD NINE: We see it, Gold Leader. Ion torpedoes away.

The Gold squadron launches torpedoes at the ISD and power goes out on the massive vessel.

STAR DESTROYER CAPTAIN: Whats happening?

IMPERIAL CREW MEMBER: Weve lost engine power, sir.

ADMIRAL RADDUS: That Star Destroyer is disabled.

BODHI ROOK: This is Rogue One, calling any Alliance ships that can hear me! Is there anybody up there? This is Rogue One! Come in, over.

ADMIRAL RADDUS: This is Admiral Raddus, Rogue One, we hear you!

BODHI ROOK: We have the plans! They found the Death Star plans. They have to transmit them from the communications tower! You have to take down the shield gate. Its the only way to going to get them through!

ADMIRAL RADDUS: Call up a Hammerhead corvette. I have an idea. Standby, Rogue One, were on it.

BODHI ROOK: This is for you, Galen.

BAZE MALBUS: The Force is with me. Im one with the Force.

A Hammerhead corvette is seen speeding towards the disabled ISD at full power. The crew braces for impact.

HAMMERHEAD CAPTAIN: Corvette 5, locked on target. Prepare for impact.

HAMMERHEAD CAPTAIN: Sublight thrusters, full power!

The corvette crashes into the side of the disabled ISD, bringing it towards the second Destroyer. A horrible collision forces the Destroyers to fall slowly towards the shield gate, breaking it in half. Imperial crew members scream in pain as the ships go down, exploding. Jyn climbs out of the hatch, avoiding its sharp edges, and races to the antenna to send off the plans, but encounters a problem.

COMPUTER: Reset antenna alignment. Reset antenna alignment. Reset antenna alignment. Reset antenna alignment.

Jyn looks over to the side of the tower where there is another control panel, but a TIE Striker almost shoots her off the edge. She barely makes it up and fixes the antenna.

ADMIRAL GORIN: Reverse engines, full power!

COMPUTER: Antenna alignment. Ready to transmit.

Jyn turns away to hear the click of a blaster and Krennic aiming said blaster at her.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Who are you?

JYN ERSO: You know who I am. Im Jyn Erso. Daughter of Galen and Lyra. Youve lost.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: Oh, I have, have I?

JYN ERSO: My fathers revenge. He built a flaw in the Death Star. He put a fuse in the middle of your machine and Ive just told the entire galaxy how to light it.

DIRECTOR ORSON KRENNIC: The shield is up, your signal will never reach the rebel base. All theships in here will be destroyed. I lose nothing but time. YOU, on the other hand die with the Rebellion.

He never finishes, as Cassian shoots him in the shoulder and Jyn sends off the plans in a hurry.

COMPUTER: Transmitting. Transmitting.

REBEL LIEUTENANT: Admiral, receiving transmission from Scarif.

Jyn rushed to the unconscious Krennic to kill him, but Cassian drags her away.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Hey, leave it. Leave it. Thats it. Thats it. Lets go.

COMPUTER: Transmission received.

LIEUTENANT: Admiral, we have the plans!

ADMIRAL RADDUS: She did it.

In the elevator back to the landing pad, Cassian and Jyn smile at each other weakly.

CASSIAN ANDOR: Do you think anybody is listening?

JYN ERSO: I do. Someones out there.

The Mon Cala cruiser has received the transmissions, but someone catches a massive object on the horizon. It's the Death Star. Krennic opens his eyes, and a look of horror flashes on his face as he sees it too.

LIEUTENANT: Sir, were detecting a massive object emerging from hyperspace.

Aboard the Death Sta stand Tarkin and Romodi, ready to give the command to fire.

GENERAL HURST ROMODI: Sir, shall I begin targeting their fleet?

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: Lord Vader will handle the fleet. Target the base at Scarif. Single reactor ignition.

GENERAL HURST ROMODI: Yes, sir.

GRAND MOFF WILHUFF TARKIN: You may fire when ready.

GENERAL HURST ROMODI: Commence primary ignition.

The Death Star control panels are ignited and the same green ray emerges from the reactor. Krennic watches silently as it fires, destroying the antenna and hitting the ocean, where a giant wave rises from the impact. Raddus watches the destruction from above.

ADMIRAL RADDUS: Rogue One, may the Force be with you. All ships, prepare for jump to hyperspace!

Just before the fleet can make the jump, The Devastator jumps out of hyperspace, and Darth Vader stands on the bridge as his ISD destroys the remnants of the rebel fleet. On the beach, Jyn and Cassian hug as they fall ont othe sand and watch the wave come toward them.

JYN ERSO: Im glad you came.

CASSIAN ANDOR: You father would have been proud of you, Jyn.

The music intensifies and the two watch the wave with tears in their eyes as it engulfs them. Everything goes silent. On board the Devastator, Vader is preparing to board the cruiser.

CAPTAIN SHAEF CORSSIN: The rebel flag ship is disabled, my lord, but has received transmission from the surface.

DARTH VADER: Prepare a boarding party.

CAPTAIN SHAEF CORSSIN: Yes, my lord.

On the cruiser, the rebels barely get the plans onto a hard drive and race to the escape pods, but some of them are cut off by a locked door.

REBEL: Hurry!

REBEL 2: Lets go!

REBEL 1: We got to go now!

REBEL: Hurry, lets go!

REBEL: Its stuck.

REBEL: Hey, help!

The music stops, and only the sirens blare in the darkness. Then someone starts breathing, and a crimson lightsaber ignites, revealing Darth Vader himself.

REBEL: Open fire!

REBEL: Help us!

REBEL: Its jammed!

Vader slaughters the rebels easily and cold bloodedly, despite all their efforts. Someone manages to pass on the plans to the outside before being impaled by his saber. The survivors run to the Tantive IV that's docked to the cruiser.

REBEL: Pull it!

REBEL: Here. Here. Take it! Take it.

REBEL: LAUNCH!

The smaller ship launches the second Vader makes his way to it. He stands on the side of the cruiser, watching the Tantive leave. On board the smaller ship, captain Antilles finds Princess Leia of Alderaan.

CAPTAIN RAYMUS ANTILLES: Make sure you secure the airlock. And prepare the escape pods.

CAPTAIN RAYMUS ANTILLES: Your Highness. The transmission we received. What is it theyve sent us?

Leia smiles.

PRINCESS LEIA ORGANA: Hope.

THE END

Solo 
(The film starts with a text without the opening crawl like "Rogue One" as it reads "A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away...It is a lawless time. CRIME SYNDICATES compete for RESOURCES- food, medicine, and HYPERFUEL. On the ship building planet of CORELLIA, the foul LADY PROXIMA forces runaways into a life of crime in exchange of shelter and protection. On these mean streets, a young man fights for survival but yearns to fly amongst the stars."

(HAN PANTING)

HAN: Come on.
Come on!

(POWERING UP)

MAN: Don't let him get away!

(CREATURES GROWLING)

(PANICKED CHATTER)

MAN: Get inside now!
Hurry up! You're late!
Proxima's gonna have your hide.
Get back in the den.

BOY: Look what I stole!
Proxima'll give me an extra portion for this!

LEX: Nope, I think she's gonna give that extra portion to me.
Hey, give it back!
It belongs to whoever's holding it!
And that's not you!
Lex!

BOY 1: Full Sabacc!

BOY 2: Idiot's Array.

BOY 1: What? Let me see that!

BOY 2: Nope, it's my card.

BOY 1: You cheat.

QI'RA: Han!
You were gone too long!
I knew something must've gone wrong.
This is nothing.
You should see them.

MAN: Look down here!
All right, listen.
I was in the middle of the exchange, I'm handing over the coaxium and his goons jumped me, but I showed 'em.
How?
I ran away, then I boosted their speeder.
What, are we going somewhere?
Yeah, anywhere we want.
You held on to one of the vials?

BOY: Han's back!
This, this is worth...
5, 600 credits.
That's more than you said we'd need.
To buy our way out of the control zone.
And off Corellia.
Han, this could work.
This is gonna work.
Qi'ra, you always said one day we're gonna get out of here.
This is it.
What are we waiting for?

REBOLT: There he is.
Hey, you two!

(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)

Moloch. Hi, how are ya?
I was just on my way to see Lady Proxima.

(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)

(CHUCKLES)
What a night I had.
You're not gonna believe it.
You'll believe it, but...

Hold still, scrumrat!

(GRUNTING)

HAN: Easy.

REBOLT: Come on.
All right.

REBOLT:
Let's go see Lady Proxima.


Lady Proxima: "Well, what happened?"
Han: "Ill tell you what happened. They double-crossed you and tried to kill me"
Lady Proxima: "The money?"
Han Solo: "They kept it"
Lady Proxima: "My coaxium?"
Han: "They kept that too. But we learned a very valuable lesson. We cannot trust those guys"
Lady Proxima: "So you expect me to believe that you walked away with nothing?"
Han: "Oh, I ran away with my life. I think thats something. To me, thats a lot"
Lady Proxima: "I trusted you with a simple task. And all Im hearing is more excuses. There must be consequences for disobedience or else you never learn"
Han: "You know what? I dont think Im ever going to learn"
Lady Proxima: "What did you say?"
Han Solo: "I said, next time somebody hits me, I hit them back."
QI'RA: Moloch, wait!
Don't!
Qi'ra, remember the Silo?
We pulled you out of that horror, gave you a home.
Don't throw it away for Han.
He's not worth it!
Whatever he lost on the deal, we'll earn it back, double.
We will make it up to you.
(MOLOCH SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
- Everybody, stand back!
- (ALL EXCLAIMING)
What's that supposed to be?
This is a thermal detonator (CLICKS TONGUE)
that I just armed.
- That's a rock!
- No, it's not.
LADY PROXIMA: Yes, it is!
And you just made a clicking sound with your mouth.
Please tell me this isn't your plan.
HAN: No, this is.


- Get in!
- An M-68?
- Nice, right?
- I love it!
- Whoa!
- (GRUNTS)
(LASERS FIRING)
(HAN AND QI'RA CHEERING)
There's a starliner leaving from Coronet Spaceport, we're gonna be on it.
We bribe our way through the checkpoint, and we're free.
I'm gonna be a pilot.
We can get our own ship.
See the galaxy, all of it.
We won't have to take orders or be kicked around by anyone.
Ever.
(BOTH GRUNTING)
Thought we'd get a little more of a head start.
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
- Whoa!
- Hang on!
SECURITY DROID:
This is a secure area.
You must have proper clearance.
Stop at once! You must follow the proper...
Protocol.
Damn!
That stinger's fast.
Yeah, but we're faster, right?
I hope so.
(SIREN WAILING)
STORMTROOPER: Pull over!
(STORMTROOPER SCREAMS)
(SHRIEKS)
Han, no, we're not gonna make it!
Oh, yeah?
Han, I'm telling you, it's too tight!
Watch this.
(METAL SCRAPING)
(GRUNTS)
(MOLOCH SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
Come on!
We gotta move.
(GROWLING)
MAN: (OVER PA)
Do not join the line if you don't have a boarding pass.
No access without ID chip.
All droids must be registered.
STORMTROOPER 1:
Move along. Move along.
STORMTROOPER 2:
Stand down. Do not resist!
- Stop struggling.
- MAN: Let me go!
Take his arm.
STORMTROOPER 2: I got him.
STORMTROOPER 1:
Take him to cell 3B.
STORMTROOPER 3:
This way, come on.
Keep moving.
Hold it, hold it.
FEMALE GUARD: Next.
Han, they're here.
STORMTROOPER:
Hey, what are you...
- (SPEAKS ALIEN LANGUAGE)
- HAN: We're almost there.
- Just hold on to me.
- FEMALE GUARD: Next.
Don't look back.
Once we're through, we've gotta be smart, figure out where we're going.
Anywhere the Empire isn't.
Wherever we go, it can't be worse than where we've been.
Yes, it can. Out there, we've got no protection.
We could get snatched up by traffickers, sold to Crimson Dawn or the Hutt Cartel.
That's not gonna happen.
I won't let it.
For luck?
Damn right.
(MOLOCH SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
STORMTROOPER:
You heard him. Let's go.
FEMALE GUARD: Next.
ID chips.
Funny thing, we don't have 'em.
We have this.
Refined hyperfuel.
It's worth at least 800 credits, maybe more.
You could be detained just for having that.
What good would that do anybody?
Let us through, it's all yours.
The coaxium, now.
As we're going through, not before.
(SCOFFS)
(MOLOCH SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
Do it.
Just do it, do it.
(DOOR BUZZING)
Not so fast, Qi'ra!
Come on!
Wait!
Open the door!
Security! Security, there has been a breach!
HAN: Open the door!
- Run! Run!
- Get your hands off of her!
Run!
Get your hands off of her!
- Qi'ra!
- (ALARM BLARING)
Run, Han! Go!
REBOLT: Keep moving.
(SOBBING)
Qi'ra!
QI'RA: Run!
STORMTROOPER: Traveler has been apprehended.
Qi'ra, I'll come back!
I'll come back!
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
MAN: (OVER PA) All units, there has been a breach.
Another unauthorized traveler made it through the gate.
GUARD: One got through the gate! Look over there!
STORMTROOPER: Someone got through the checkpoint.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
- MAN: Keep an eye on that gate.
- GUARD: Yes, sir.
Can't let you through without a ticket.
Can't let you through without a ticket.
MAN: Hey, wait!
- Hey!
- STORMTROOPER: Come with us.
STORMTROOPER 2: He's still out there. Keep looking.
(PANTING)
STORMTROOPER:
You there, stop!
- Show me some identification.
- MAN: Please. Please. No, no!
STORMTROOPER: Do not resist.
MAN: (OVER PA) Be a part of something.
Join the Empire.
Explore new worlds.
Learn valuable skills.
Bring order and unity to the galaxy!
Be a part of something.
Join the Empire.
This is where I sign up to be a pilot, right?
If you apply for the Imperial Navy, but most recruits go into the infantry.
I'm gonna be a pilot.
Best in the galaxy.
GUARD: You there, come with us.
Who, me?
We have a few questions to ask you.
How long is that gonna take?
Depends on how good you are at following orders.
Why, have you got somewhere to be?
Yeah, back here, as soon as I can.
(CHUCKLES)
Don't hear that much.
What's your name, son?
Han.
Han what?
Who are your people?
I don't have people.
I'm alone.
Han...
(TYPING)
Solo.
Approved.
Proceed to transport ID 83 for the Naval Academy at Carida.
Good luck, Han Solo.
We'll have you flying in no time.
(SCREAMING)
(GASPING)
(MAN SCREAMING)
Your Empire needs you.
Troopers forward!
Solo, get up!
We're almost there!
Almost where?
Where are we going?
Just over that last ridge.
Victory is...
(GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
(MEN GRUNTING)
My legs! My leg! (SCREAMS)
(YELLING)
RIO: Hey, Beckett, you said we were here to pull a quick job.
- Yeah.
- Well, this ain't a quick job!
It's a war!
BECKETT: It's always something with you.
AT-hauler.
That's what we came for.
Forward operations must be this way.
They are, but the major said we're supposed to go that way!
Yeah, go that way and die!
That's exactly what happened to the major!
Who's the ranking officer now?
You are, Captain.
(LAUGHTER)
RIO: He's got you there.
So what's the plan, Captain Beckett?
Val, you take Rio and these four mud skulls flank left.
I'll take this mouthy scooch and we'll go around to the right and maybe we'll get lucky.
RIO: Luck's got nothin' to do with it.
Wait! One question!
- You wanna live, sparky?
- Very much.
Then shut up and do what your captain tells you.
Let's go!
(ALL YELLING)
(GUNSHOTS)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
HAN: Captain.
SOLDIER: T-15s are down.
We walk from here.
Captain.
I'm Han.
Nobody cares.
Thanks for your help back there.
You did all right.
I was trained in aerial combat...
You want some advice?
Get the hell away from here.
Any way you can, as fast as you can.
What company do you command?
None of your business company.
And we're full up.
RIO: Stick to soldiering, kid.
You don't want any part of this.
RIO: Hang on, guys!
MAN: Attention!
In three hours, we move out for the southern marshlands.
I want an advance party of ten men.
Great, more mud.
What was that?
Just wondering what our objective is, Lieutenant.
Bring peace and prosperity to the galaxy, install a regime loyal to the Emperor, and eradicate the hostiles.
It's their planet, we're the hostiles.
You got a problem, trooper?
No problem, sir.
Moving out.
SOLDIER 1: To the southern marshlands! Move out!
SOLDIER 2: You heard 'em!
Let's move out!
BECKETT: Mmm. Looks like they're running sorties every 30 minutes.
Yeah, I can take out the guards at the perimeter, signalman, pilot.
Hell, I'll just take 'em all out.
What are we looking at?
You have a talent for sticking your nose in where it doesn't belong.
I just couldn't help but notice you're wearing a uniform pock-full of laser burns.
So either you heal real quick or you stole it off a dead man.
You're not Imperial Army.
You're thieves here to steal equipment for a job and I want in.
- Well, now we gotta shoot him.
- No.
Snap his neck.
It's less mess.
Or you take me with you.
Look, I came up running scams on the streets of Corellia.
I was boosting AV-21s when I was ten.
I'm a driver, a flyer, and hey, you said yourself.
I gotta get outta here. Right?
RIO: What's a fancy flyboy doing down in the mud?
I got kicked out of the Imperial Academy for having a mind of my own.
But I am a great pilot.
And I gotta get home.
RIO: This guy is nuts. No one goes back to Corellia.
I got a reason.
We've already got a great pilot.
(CHUCKLES)
The Ardennian.
RIO: Ardennian?
You got a lot of nerve, pal.
I'm an Imperial trooper.
Oh, really?
A couple of your arms popped out of your butt and hiked up your pants, trooper.
RIO: Oh, yeah?
Look, I'll do whatever it takes to get back to Corellia.
I've already been away too long.
Just give me a shot.
RIO: Whoa. Hold it.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
Well, if you're not interested in me, I think the lieutenant might be very interested in you.
(CHUCKLING)
Blackmail.
Lieutenant.
Captain.
Lieutenant, we have apprehended a deserter.
Take him.
Wait.
I should've known.
This one's a troublemaker.
BECKETT: And a liar. Don't believe anything he says.
- Don't go anywhere without me.
- SOLDIER: All right, let's go.
Feed him to the beast.
The beast?
Wait, there's a beast?
- Hold on!
- SOLDIER: Move it!
HAN: Listen, that guy's not even an officer. All right?
- He was lying!
- LIEUTENANT: Quiet!
(GROANS)
Don't care.
TROOPER 1: Haven't fed him in three days.
TROOPER 2: (CHUCKLES)
Should be fun.
(SNARLING)
(GROWLING)
(CHAINS RATTLING)
(HAN GROANS)
(STRAINING)
(ROARING)
Oh! Hey!
Hey, big fella.
Just calm down.
Take it easy.
We're on the same side.
You like treats? (GRUNTS)
Help!
Let me out of here!
Let me out of here!
(GROANING)
A-ha! Gotcha!
(GROANS)
Ahhh!
(HOWLING)
(GROANS)
Ah, this was just getting good.
- He killed him too fast.
- Yeah!
Kill him slower.
Wait, wait, wait, wait!
Wait! Wait!
(GROWLS)
(GASPS)
Yeah, I speak a little.
Now just listen to me, you...
(SPEAKS WOOKIEE LANGUAGE)
(GROWLS)
(SPEAKING WOOKIEE LANGUAGE)
(LAUGHS) Yes, yes!
No, no, no, no!
Do it!
Come on.
Oh, no!
Ten credits, he doesn't last another minute.
HAN: Let me out of here!
I can't take it anymore!
- Oh, no! Stop, please!
- That's it. Get him!
You tired, you mangy Kashyyykian moof-milker?
- (GROWLING)
- (GROANS)
(BOTH SCREAMING)
(LAUGHS) See what happens when you listen to me?
- (GROWLING)
- Hey, what are you doing?
(SCREAMING)
Ow. (PANTING)
Follow me!
(GRUNTING)
Wait, wait.
Come here.
Listen to me.
You don't understand, okay?
I have some very good friends waiting for me at that airfield.
They're leaving right now.
That's our one way off this mud ball.
If you wanna live, we go that way.
After that, you go whichever way you want, I don't care!
But right now, that's the way you go!
Trust me!
BECKETT: Val, let's go!
(GRUNTING)
How do they breathe in these suits? It's so stuffy!
No wonder they're such lousy pilots.
You can't turn your head, you can't breathe, you can't hear each other!
(GRUNTS)
I'll be damned.
RIO: Hey, look who's back!
Unbelievable!
Wait!
Wait!
Whoa, is that a Wookiee?
Incredible!
I'll say it, I don't care.
This kid's growing on me.
Wait!
(GROANS)
You know, we could always use some muscle on a job like this.
Don't even think about it!
I'm telling you, you will never have a deeper sleep than curled up in a Wookiee's lap.
(WHOOPING) I told you!
Very good friends!
We couldn't have done this maybe, like, one at a time?
(GRUNTS)
Thanks for helping me get outta there.
(GROWLING)
No, they only took you because of me.
Hey!
I got us a real sweet deal here.
We do this one job with them, we make some real money, and then we're free.
When's the last time you could say that?
(GROWLING)
Been a while for me, too.
So what's your name, anyway?
(GROWLING)
Chewbacca?
(CHUCKLES)
All right, well, you're gonna need a nickname, 'cause I ain't saying that every time.
(GROWLS)
BECKETT: Here it comes. Take a look.
HAN: Yeah.
BECKETT: We hit the Conveyex between the tower and the bridge. Rio drops us in, we separate the payload container, cable it up to the AT-hauler and then...
VAL: Rio jams their distress signal. I blow the bridge, the container slides right off the track and we sail away.
BECKETT: You trip that security beam, wake up those Vipers, it's liable to get real spicy, real fast.
VAL: Well, I'm not the one you should be worried about. Enfys Nest.
What's an Enfys Nest?
Beckett: I told you, we're way ahead of the competition on this one. There's no way Enfys Nest even knows about this shipment. Only my guy has the intel.
VAL: Well, you better be right. Yeah? Because sometimes, you put your faith in the wrong people.

VAL: Our whole future depends on this one score and you bring in amateurs.
BECKETT: In case you hadn't noticed, we're a little shorthanded.
VAL: So we get who we need.
The Xan sisters, or Bossk.
But, no, instead you're putting our lives in the hands of morons.
You guys morons?
No!
- No. See?
- HAN: We're not morons.
Look, I waited a long time for a shot like this.
I'm not about to screw it up, all right?
RIO: Oh, come on, Val!
He looks so sincere.
Plus, have you ever tried to disinvite a Wookiee to anything?
- Not a good idea!
- (LAUGHTER)
VAL: This is not funny!
Look, now, I have great instincts about these guys.
And, besides, do you see any other options?
I just hope you know what you're doing.
Yeah, I know exactly what I'm doing and why.
We're gonna clear our debts, go back to Glee Anselm, and I'm finally gonna learn how to play that valachord.
Babe, you're never gonna learn how to play the valachord.
She's right.
You are tone-deaf.
(LAUGHTER)
(LAUGHS MOCKINGLY)
So what's your sob story, flyboy?
Who, me?
You're after something, I know the look.
What is it?
Revenge?
No, it's not revenge.
Look at him.
If it's anything, it's a girl.
RIO: Oh, a girl!
Tell us about the girl, Han.
Is she nice?
Does she have sharp teeth?
There was a girl.
But I got out, she didn't.
I swore to myself I'd become a pilot, get a ship, go back and find her.
That's what I'm gonna do right after this job.
How you know she'll still be there?
I just know.
Personally, I refuse to be tied down by anyone, though many have tried.
VAL: (SCOFFS) Come on, Rio.
You don't fool me.
Everybody needs somebody.
Even a broken down old crook like this one.
How about you? What are you gonna do with your share?
(GROWLING SOFTLY)
What was he saying?
He said the Wookiees were enslaved by the Empire, taken off Kashyyyk.
He's searching for his, uh...
I don't know if he said tribe or family.
What's the difference?
Show me how to do that.
BECKETT: The only thing you need to learn to do is do what I say when I say it.
And this time tomorrow, you'll have more than enough to buy your own ship.
(KISSES)
RIO: (ON RADIO)
Starting the clock.
Jamming their signal.
9.6 to the bridge.
Let's find out how good we really are, folks.
(YELLING)
I'm fine!
(GROWLING)
Val, how's it going up there?
Never better.
Coaxium.
Enough to power a fleet!
Or blow us all straight to hell!
(GROWLS)
RIO: All right, talk to me.
Is it a good day?
BECKETT: It's a great day!
Best day of your life, my grabby friend!
I don't know, you've never been to a Mynock roast on Ardennia.
It's nuts!
BECKETT: Here they come!
Get down to the couplers!
Rio, fall back!
Well, that didn't take 'em long.
(GROANS)
(GRUNTING)
HAN: Chewie!
(HAN STRAINING)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
You all right?
Little close there, buddy!
Han, what's the holdup?
HAN: All right, together.
Now!
(CHEWIE GRUNTS)
(LAUGHS) All right!
Oh!
They got one uncoupled.
Where are you, buddy?
RIO: (ON RADIO) Just up here planning my retirement.
Thinking about opening a cantina somewhere warm but not too warm, you know?
Lowering the winch cables now!
I knew it! I told him!
Beckett!
He's coming!
Damn it! I'm never gonna hear the end of this!
(MEN ULULATING)
Who's that?
Enfys Nest!
Marauders, pirates.
Come to snake the score from under us.
ENFYS NEST:
Ready your harpoons.
Move in.
(GUN FIRING)
(GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
Hang on!
I got an uninvited guest.
Get off of my ship! (GROANS)
You still with us, brother?
(GROANS) Yeah, I'm okay.
Just nicked one of my shoulders.
It's nothing.
He's not okay.
Chewie!
You gotta uncouple this one on your own!
(GROWLS)
BECKETT: Han!
I'm on it!
(GRUNTS)
Val!
Keep your eyes open.
We just tripped a sensor.
(ALARM BLARING)
Viper droids headed your way!
- (RIO COUGHING)
- Rio?
Yeah, it looks worse than it is.
Just gotta patch it up.
Maybe rest my eyes for a minute.
(GRUNTS)
ENFYS NEST: Enough!
I'm going in.
(GRUNTING)
(GRUNTS)
You weren't lying, kid.
You're a hell of a pilot.
Rio, stay with me, buddy.
(COUGHS, GROANS)
Beckett, we just lost a cable!
2.1 to the bridge!
(COUGHS)
It's no good to die alone, kid.
Val was right.
(WHEEZING)
Rio?
(EXHALES)
(GRUNTING)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(GRUNTS)
(GROANS)
Beckett, we're .8 from the bridge!
Val's still on the track!
Val, you gotta get off that bridge!
We're here!
They got me pinned!
I'm gonna have to finish the job from right here.
What?
It's been a ride, babe.
And I wouldn't trade it for anything.
BECKETT: Val!
No!
(SIGHS)
(CLICKS)
No!
(GROWLING)
Chewie, now!
(YELLING)
(STRAINING)
HAN: Beckett, I can't pull it away from 'em.
They'll let go, you fly straight!
ENFYS NEST:
Release your cables or die!
We're too close.
I gotta release.
You do what I tell you, Han!
Chewie, grab the line!
Don't you do it!
BECKETT: Han!
You coward!
(GROANS)
What the hell?
You don't listen and you can't follow orders!
You have any idea what you've done?
We were not stealing for ourselves, we were hired by Crimson Dawn.
(CHEWIE GRUNTING)
Crimson Dawn?
Now we owe them 100 keys of refined coaxium. When they find out we don't got it, they're gonna kill us.
- (CHEWIE GRUNTS)
- Right.
We run.
I'm already a deserter.
What's the difference?
The difference is the Empire doesn't send out a team of enforcers to hunt you down when you're a deserter.
Dryden Vos will.
You have any idea what it's like to live with a price on your head?
The only thing to do is to go to them.
Maybe I can find some way to make it up to him.
Han: (SIGHS AND SNIFFLES) Then that's what we do.
Beckett: No. He knows me, not you. If you come with me and show your face, if they don't kill you, you're in this life for good.
Han: You find some way to square this, we still get our money?
Beckett: Maybe.
For me, it's worth the risk.
How about you?
(GROWLS)
That's yes.
BECKETT: Sorry I punched your face.
HAN: Happens more often than you think.
So when we get up there, Dryden Vos is waiting for us at Fort Ypso?
BECKETT: Nearby, on his yacht.
You're gonna know how to find it?
That won't be a problem.
(GROWLS)
TOHT RA: I'll need to check your weapons.
That's all I got left.
(SINGING IN OTHER LANGUAGE)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER, LAUGHTER)
(MARGO SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
BECKETT: I'm here to see Dryden.
He's expecting me.
He'll be with you shortly.
He's just finishing with the regional governor.
(EXHALES)
ENFORCER: Excuse me, sir.
Yes.
- Beckett has arrived.
- Oh.
Put this in my office.
I might be needing it later.
I get all worked up.
Silly.
It's a party.
(SINGING CONTINUES)
BECKETT: Hey.
These people are not your friends and they're never gonna be, so don't talk to any of 'em.
Don't look at anybody, just keep your eyes down.
I might get a drink.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(CHEWIE GROWLING)
No, yeah, whatever.
(WOMAN CHATTERING)
(LAUGHTER)
(APPLAUSE)
Chewie, would you please...
Qi'ra, what are you doing here?
I work here.
What's your excuse?
My... I...
Qi'ra, I was...
I was coming back for you.
It's in the past, Han.
Not for me.
The only reason I'm here, I was doing this job, get a little money and then I was gonna come back to Corellia and find you.
Well, now you don't have to.
I'm right in front of you.
That day...
Sometimes, a lot of times, I think...
If you'd have stayed, they would've killed you.
I'm glad you got out.
How did you get out?
I didn't.
You look good.
A little rough around the edges, but good.
You too.
Thank you, Ottilie.
Have you been attentive to Dok-Ondar?
Very.
(GROWLS)
What should we drink to?
Let's drink two and see where it goes.
Did you ever get that ship we were going to fly away on?
Yeah.
Sort of.
About to.
That's why I'm here.
I'm working on a...
Very big deal.
How big?
Enormous.
Really? And when are you going to close this enormous deal?
Any minute.
I thought about you a lot.
Off somewhere, some adventure.
I imagined myself with you.
It always made me...
- What?
- BECKETT: Hey.
What did I say?
Look, I can't keep my eyes down the whole time.
I'm gonna bump into something.
BECKETT: But I told you not to talk to anyone.
Beckett.
Wait.
You two work together?
- Yeah.
- DRYDEN: Tobias!
BECKETT: Dryden.
Are you all right?
Are you hurt?
No, I'm fine.
I'm sorry to hear about Val.
BECKETT: Yeah, I appreciate that.
But there was no way we could've anticipated...
I don't believe we've been introduced.
Yeah. This is Han Solo and Chewbacca.
They're with me.
I'm Dryden Vos.
I see you've already met my top lieutenant.
Han and I grew up together on Corellia.
DRYDEN:
Oh, fellow scrumrat.
I admire anyone who can crawl their way out of the sewer.
Especially, a sewer as putrid as Corellia.
- The stench, am I right?
- (CHUCKLES)
Well, it's good to have you.
Welcome.
And you, too, Chewbacca, welcome.
(GROWLS)
All right, let's eat a little, drink a lot, and talk privately.
We're just friends, all right?
- (GROWLS)
- You're touchy.
DRYDEN: Beckett, you have put me in a terrible position.
I know, Dryden, and I am sorry.
You're sorry?
BECKETT: Dryden, there were complications.
There were factors.
Enfys Nest has been a constant irritation forever.
It's one you should've anticipated, it's one you should've dealt with.
Trust me, I know I made a mistake, but when you hired me, you told me no one else had this information...
Test me!
Test me one more time, you'll see what happens.
QI'RA: I think what Dryden is trying to say is that we're not interested in why you don't have it.
No, I'm not interested.
I'm not interested at all.
BECKETT: Dryden, what can I do to make this right?
"Make this right?"
There is no making this right.
You know who I answer to and you know what he'll expect of me.
He'll say, "There have to be consequences."
So here's what I need you to do for me.
I need you to give me a reason not to kill you all.
Because I will make it up to you.
No, no, no. How?
How will you make it up to me?
By delivering exactly what was promised.
100 k-grams of refined coaxium?
Yes. We will simply steal it from somewhere else.
From where?
You'll be hard pushed to find that anywhere outside an Imperial vault.
Scarif.
Maybe Mercy Island.
DRYDEN: That's impossible.
So, let's come up with some other options.
Other ideas that we might...
What about unrefined?
QI'RA: Well, the only known source of astatic coaxium is a fissure vent beneath the spice mines on Kessel.
Yeah. That's the one I was thinking of.
That's a very, very good one.
DRYDEN: But see, the Pykes control Kessel.
Crimson Dawn maintains a fragile alliance with the Pykes.
It's one that I can't jeopardize without risking an all-out war with the Syndicates, and that, gentlemen, I will not do.
So, if that's all you have, I think we're done here.
Not all we have.
We don't have any alliance with the Pykes.
Right, so nobody is gonna know we're working for you.
DRYDEN: Possible?
It's risky.
As soon as the raw coaxium is removed from the vault, it starts to destabilize, so unless...
Unless...
Unless...
Work with me here.
Unless you could find somewhere to get it processed fast.
- BECKETT: Uh...
- Uh...
- Well...
- (GROWLS)
He's saying Savareen?
Savareen.
Yeah, it's an old refinery there and it's not under Imperial jurisdiction.
DRYDEN: But Qi'ra's right.
The canisters will explode before you get there, so you'd need an incredibly fast ship and a brilliant pilot.
We'll find a ship.
We've already got the pilot.
(ALL LAUGHING)
He is arrogant and he's hungry.
So what do you think, my dear?
You think your friend here can do what needs to be done?
Yes, I believe he can.
Well, that is good news, because you're going with him to see that he does.
All right?
Of course.
DRYDEN: All right.
I'll see you all on Savareen.
Savareen it is.
- I feel great about this plan.
- Me, too.
We should do this again.
It's been fun.
BECKETT: Great.
Oh, just one more thing.
If you do fail me again, we'll all be out of options.
Right?
We won't.
So, I thought that went really well.
Let's get this done as quick and as clean as possible.
What do you need?
BECKETT: I can scrounge up the gear.
Do you got a line on a ship?
QI'RA: I know a guy.
And I know just where to find him.
It's a long shot, but it's worth a try.
He's the best smuggler around.
He's slipped through the Empire's fingers more times than anyone else.
He's attractive, too.
Sophisticated, with impeccable taste and... Charisma.
Not to mention his prodigious...
We get it.
(PEOPLE CHEERING)
(SHOUTING)
But he's retired.
Says he's a sportsman now.
All we need is his ship.
Well, he'll never part with it.
He loves that ship.
He won it playing Sabacc.
LANDO:
And there's the rub, right?
How was I supposed to know she was an Imperial spy?
- I thought she loved me.
- (ALL LAUGHING)
That's the guy, huh?
Hmm.
HAN: An interesting style.
QI'RA: I'll say.
You say he won his ship?
You have an awful Sabacc face.
I'm gonna call it.
HAN: I can take him.
Let me at him.
Absolutely not.
Han, these guys are serious gamblers.
I'm serious. Stake me.
- (CHEWIE GRUNTS)
- Don't listen to him.
(ALL CHEERING)
LANDO: Thank you. Thank you.
You see, how'd you guys let me beat you on that one?
Come on.
There's no liars in this game, just players.
HAN: Is this seat taken?
If nobody's in the seat, then it ain't taken, friend.
So this is, uh, Sabacc?
Sabacc.
HAN: Sabacc. Got it.
LANDO: You play it before?
A couple times, yeah.
(CHATTERING)
Captain Lando Calrissian.
Han Solo.
HAN: Looks like you're having a good day.
LANDO: I'm a lucky guy.
Can I ask you a question, Captain Calrissian?
Anything, Han.
That's "Han", but that's okay.
I heard a story about you.
I was wondering if it's true.
Everything you've heard about me is true.
Thanks, love.
Did you win your ship playing cards?
Oh, I've won a lot of things.
I once won a subtropical moon in the Oseon Belt.
Wow.
Turned out to be a real money pit. (CHUCKLES)
I'm impressed.
I don't think I'd have the nerve to gamble with something I love as much as my ship.
- Really?
- Yeah.
What do you fly?
VCX-100.
(WHISTLES)
LANDO: That is a quality ship.
Right, boys?
HAN: It's the fastest in the galaxy, but there's a lot of great ships out there.
I mean, I'm sure yours is very nice.
Gets me where I'm goin'.
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
Beginner's luck.
Well played.
HAN: Let's see what we got here.
Oh, great hand!
Sorry, guys.
Close, but not quite.
(SPEAKS ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(LAUGHTER)
Eyes on your own cards, buddy.
All of 'em.
There.
Well, now I see yours.
HAN: Oh, that's me?
Okay, let's see...
Sorry, minus two.
(ALL CHEERING)
(GROWLING)
This game is fun.
LANDO: All right, how about this?
I'll see your bet and I'll raise you.
- 2,000.
- (ALL EXCLAIMING)
(CHUCKLES)
I'll see your 2,000 and I'll raise you however much this is.
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
Whoa, whoa, whoa, Han.
Slow down.
You might wanna quit while you're ahead.
You might wanna quit while you're behind.
(LAUGHS)
I like this kid.
You're adorable.
And I'm serious.
And I'm calling.
With what?
Your scarf?
Not my style.
My ship.
Against your ship.
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
Time to find out if you got the nerve.
What the hell?
Straight Staves.
(ALL CHEERING)
You played me.
You're good.
- Yeah.
- You're very good.
But not good enough.
Full Sabacc.
(ALL CHEERING)
(CHEWIE GROWLS)
I told you to quit while you were ahead.
Drinks on me!
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
Yeah, that's right.
(ALL CHEERING)
HAN: First of all, there's no way he could've had that green sylop.
They'd all been played.
Also, your guy, Captain Wonderful, is so full of bantha crap...
LANDO: Yoo-hoo!
Where's my VCX?
I don't have it right here now.
It's in the shop.
- I'm getting some work done.
- (CLEARS THROAT) Lando.
- Qi'ra.
- (CHUCKLES SOFTLY)
You look phenomenal.
As always.
Well, I knew I was gonna see you.
Get off!
What are you doing with hairy and the boy?
- There's no need, none.
- They work for me.
Good help is hard to find, no?
We're more like partners.
We are.
Excuse us.
Listen, last I checked, me and Crimson Dawn, we're squared away.
Dryden said all is forgiven after I did the whole Felucia thing for him.
Yeah. New move, we're making the Kessel Run.
We need a ship.
Why didn't you just say so?
I thought you were retired.
Circumstances change.
How much?
LANDO: The Kessel Run.
That's no easy spin.
I'm gonna need half the take.
- Ridiculous.
- (CHEWIE GROWLS)
(SHUSHES)
Grown-ups are talking.
BECKETT: 25%.
You're Tobias Beckett.
You killed Aurra Sing.
Pushed her. Pretty sure the fall killed her.
You did the galaxy a favor that day. Me, especially.
I owed her a lot of money.
And as token of my gratitude, I'm willing to do this for 40%.
25% works.
L3-37: No! Unacceptable!
Stop exploiting droids!
- You sloppy degenerate bios!
- (SIGHS)
- LANDO: She never learns.
- Have you no shame?
Who?
My first mate.
MAN: You got no business being here. Get out of here!
How can you condone this savagery?
You, you. You should not be doing this.
They're using you for entertainment.
Yeah. You've been neurowashed.
Don't just blindly follow the program.
Exercise some free will!
Stay away from him!
He's never had it so good.
Oh, really? How about you have a go at me, ya lumpy brute.
Bring it on!
Come on!
L3!
Droid rights!
We are sentient!
I'm gonna flip your switch.
Good luck finding it.
L3!
Let go of the mean man's face.
We're leaving.
They don't even serve our kind here.
Now.
(MAN GASPING)
Who are these guys?
LANDO: We're taking them to Kessel.
Oh, are we?
And what if I don't elect to go to Kessel?
LANDO: Please don't start.
L3-37: Or what, you'll have me wiped?
You couldn't get from here to Black Spire without me.
Now you're gonna make the Kessel Run?
If she doesn't wanna fly, I'll be your co-pilot.
- I don't mind.
- No, no. It's okay.
She's definitely going.
Oh, why? Because you're my organic overlord?
LANDO: Because I'm your captain, how about that?
I actually would have her memory wiped, but she's got the best damn navigational database in the galaxy.
Could use a fresh coat of paint, though!
Landonis, you do not want to press that button with me.
LANDO: You know, a lot of ships around here get boosted.
So, I keep mine locked up.
You know, for safety.
L3, do you mind?
Look away.
I can't perform with you looking at me.
Please indulge her.
I can feel you looking at me.
HAN: What are we doing here?
This guy's a hustler.
I don't even think he's got a ship.
If he does, it's gonna be a piece of junk if it's even here.
LANDO: There she is, my pride and joy.
The Millennium Falcon.
HAN: Looks like you had a little work done.
LANDO: Indeed I have, Han.
Installed an escape pod in the mandible notch, alluvial dampers, a wet bar.
BECKETT:
And a fortified infraction restraint on the landing gear.
Looks to me like they impounded your ship, Lando.
This is unbelievable!
I'm definitely gonna have some words with someone about this.
(CLICKS TONGUE)
You must have experience with these, right?
Yeah, I could take it off.
LANDO: Fantastic!
Along with five percent off your cut.
You're down to 20.
I don't like it.
I don't agree with it.
But I accept it.
You're getting the hang of this, Lando.
Yeah.
BECKETT:
Come on, Chewie.
Gonna need a little bit of that Wookiee oomph.
(GROWLS)
PIRATE: Your plan is underway, Enfys.
We've attached the homing beacon.
They won't elude us now.
ENFYS NEST: Good.
If they survive, they'll bring the prize to us.
This is a Corellian YT-1300.
Oh. You know your stuff.
I've been on one before.
My dad worked the line at the CEC plant before he got laid off.
He built these.
He wanted to be a pilot, but...
LANDO: You, uh, close with your old man?
Not really.
LANDO: Yeah, me neither.
My mom, on the other hand, most amazing woman I've ever known.
L3-37: Excuse me.
Get your presumptuous ass out of my seat!
(L3-37 GRUNTS)
My sacral-occipital circuit is sticking.
You're gonna have to do that thing again later.
Yeah.
All right, course to Kessel is set.
Plugging coordinates in now.
Just keep your pinky on the yoke and try not to mess anything up.
Whatever you say, my lady.
Just let me know when you're ready to jump.
Ready in...
(ELECTRIC HUMMING)
Ready.
It's just a simple jump to hyperspace, and we're there.
What's so tricky about that?
Plenty. Can't plot a direct course to Kessel.
You have to thread through the Si'Klaata Cluster and then pass through The Maelstrom.
You done flirting?
I'm still ready.
You might wanna buckle up, baby.
Think.
Do you wanna make that move?
- Do you wanna make that move?
- (CHEWIE GROWLS)
You made that move, okay.
I guess I have to destroy that little guy.
Somehow I never get bored with winning.
(GROWLS)
No, you can't wipe 'em off.
They're holograms.
(CHEWIE GROWLING)
Hey, hey, hey!
Chewie, relax!
Hey, try to compose yourself.
Look. All you gotta do is think a few moves ahead, anticipate your opponent.
There's a lesson to be learned here.
Uh, you guys seen Qi'ra?
People are predictable.
- (BECKETT CHUCKLING)
- (GROWLS)
(QI'RA CHUCKLES)
Yeah, I had to try one on.
That's a lot of capes.
Maybe too many capes.
So what's the plan?
Well, I thought we'd talk a little first and then you know...
- For Kessel.
- Oh.
- Mmm-hmm.
- Good.
Yeah? How good?
Foolproof.
Well, it better be.
- I...
- I...
- You go first.
- (CHUCKLES) No.
What were you gonna say?
I wanna tell you so much.
And I wanna know everything that's happened to you since Corellia.
I'm not sure we have that kinda time.
We could.
We could have all the time we want after the job.
You and I.
What?
I want to.
You want to?
To tell you everything that's happened.
But I know if I do, you won't look at me the same.
The way that you're looking at me right now.
Nothing is gonna change the way I'm looking at you right now.
You don't know that.
You don't know what I've done.
(CHUCKLES)
Am I interrupting something?
Kinda.
Good.
'Cause we got a lot of work to do.
You're making a big mistake.
- Oh, really?
- Which is yours to make except when you start to interfere with my livelihood.
This isn't gonna interfere with your livelihood.
BECKETT:
Then we have a problem.
You don't see it, because you don't want to.
Maybe I know her a little better than you do.
Maybe you don't know her well enough.
All right?
Look.
I like you, kid.
We got a good thing going here.
Me, you, Chewie.
- Yeah.
- Right?
The makings of a solid crew.
But it does not work with Qi'ra.
It worked with Val.
You trusted her.
You wanna know how I've survived as long as I have?
I trust no one.
Assume everyone will betray you and you will never be disappointed.
Sounds like a lonely way to live.
It's the only way.
L3-37: Dropping out of lightspeed now.
LANDO: Ready to...
The Akkadese Maelstrom.
I'm gonna go check on the dampers.
You need anything?
Equal rights?
(SIGHS)
(DISTANT EXPLOSIONS)
What's that sound?
Carbonbergs, size of planets, crashing into each other.
Ships fly in there, they never come out.
It's ionized gas, water vapor, possibly vacuum-breathing life forms swirling around The Maw.
Only way in or out is this channel.
So what are you gonna do about your little problem?
Problem?
Uh...
Well, that brand on your wrist tells me that you're committed.
And that young male's heart fluctuations tell me he's in love with you.
Han is not in love with me!
(CHUCKLES)
Oh, please. It's just us.
You don't have to pretend.
I'm in the same situation.
You are?
I'm sure you've noticed that Lando has feelings for me.
Which makes working together difficult because I do not feel the same way about him.
Right.
Yes, yeah.
Yeah, I see that.
Sometimes, I think...
Maybe.
But, no.
We're just not compatible.
How would that work?
It works.
BECKETT:
This is a precision job.
Thermal vault will be on the lowest level.
Down where it's warm.
The only way we're gonna pull this off is if everybody plays their part.
Stick to the plan.
Do not improvise.
Mining colonies are the worst.
BECKETT:
Yeah, well, "the worst"
is where the money is.
All right, people.
Time to shine.
(PEOPLE GRUNTING)
(PEOPLE COUGHING)
- (CHEWIE GRUNTS)
- It won't be for long.
Shut up, the both of you.
QI'RA: I am Oksana Floren, Deputy Assistant Administrator to the Vice-Admiral of the Federation of Trade Route Allocation and Monetization.
Here with an offer from his eminence, the Senior Vice-Admiral.
Your spice for our hard-working slaves.
I brought you a sample.
Tuul, bring forth the merchandise.
(GRUNTS)
(HAN AND CHEWIE GROANING)
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
L3-37: Director Tolsite said our slaves should follow those guys to get clipped and tagged.
What are they clipping?
- Mmm-hmm.
- (SPEAKS ALIEN LANGUAGE)
He wants us to follow him.
(GRUNTS)
(GROANS) Really?
That's for that stunt you pulled earlier, you degenerate scum.
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
L3-37: He says all systems in this sector of the facility operate out of this room.
It's how they're able to maintain control over so many with so few.
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
The director says their reconditioning process is excruciating but effective.
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
He said your security attache can wait there.
"Surely, we don't need him to negotiate."
Wait there, Tuul.
Try not to bother anyone.
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(CHEWIE GROANING)
(DROID GRUNTING)
(CHEWIE GROWLING)
Nice!
That was the uniform that would've fit me perfectly, but it's fine.
(GRUNTS)
(DROID GRUNTING)
(KESSEL SUPERVISOR SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(GRUNTING)
Would you mind holding this for me?
(GROANING)
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
Whoa.
I have never see anyone do...
What was that?
(GRUNTS) Teras Kasi.
Dryden taught me.
Ah.
Well negotiated.
(PEOPLE COUGHING)
Excuse me.
I need to use this terminal.
Hello?
Can you hear me? Ugh.
Restraining bolts...
Barbaric.
(GRUNTING)
Congratulations!
You're liberated. Scoot.
- (DROID GRUNTING)
- I don't know.
Free your brothers and sisters or something.
Just give me some space.
I'm in!
QI'RA: Han, can you hear me?
HAN: I kinda need to know which way to go here.
L3?
The thermal vault is down two levels, then left, then right, then it's the third left.
Right. That's a lot of directions, but we're on it.
(GRUNTING)
They're in subsector four, coming up on gate X-3-7-1-K.
L3-37: Overriding!
Freedom.
(GASPS)
- (GRUNTING)
- (PEOPLE CLAMORING)
(CLAMORING CONTINUES)
HAN: What the hell are you guys doing up there?
I created a distraction!
Come on! This way!
(GROWLING)
Wait! What are you doing?
Come on, we gotta get the coaxium.
Hey! Remember what Beckett said, stick to the plan.
- (GROWLING)
- Chewie! Come on, let's go!
Fine!
Chewie!
Here, you might need this.
(GROWLS)
Hope I see you around sometime.
(CHEWIE GROWLING)
(GROWLING)
Han, where are you?
HAN: I'm on my way to the vault.
I lost Chewie.
He's dead?
No, he had something he had to do.
BECKETT: Is he coming back?
I don't know.
Okay, they're on to us now.
I'm at the vault.
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
That's what I said!
(GROANS)
- Huh, that was impressive.
- Yeah.
We're clear.
Now what?
QI'RA: Han, each canister should be equipped with a thermal display.
Yeah, I see it.
If the internal temperature reaches below 35 standard, then the coaxium will destabilize and explode.
Yup, I get it, guys.
It's dangerous.
(GRUNTING)
(PANTING)
Okay, got it.
Great. Only eleven more.
Eleven?
The Calrissian Chronicles, chapter five.
continued.
Personally, I wasn't all that impressed with the Sharu.
No sense of humor or style.
Nonetheless, there L3 and I were deep in their sacred temple.
And that's when we saw it...
(PEOPLE CLAMORING)
Always something.
You guys are not gonna believe what I'm seeing up here.
L3-37: Is it a mass breakout?
L3, what did you do?
I found my true purpose, Lando.
That's what I've done.
I'm so glad we took this job!
(SIGHS) That droid!
L3, come on!
L3-37: Follow me, compatriots!
(HAN GRUNTING)
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
Another couple guards just spotted me.
I don't have a free hand to take 'em out.
- What do I do?
- BECKETT: Improvise.
You said never improvise!
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
(CHEWIE GROWLS)
Hi!
Don't forget that guy!
(GRUNTING)
(GRUNTS)
Good to see you, buddy!
MAN: Stay with me, Sagwa!
Keep up!
Hey! I'm Chewie's friend, Han.
(WOOKIEE GRUNTING)
Okay.
(PEOPLE CLAMORING)
(YELLING)
(MAN SCREAMING)
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
- (GROANS)
- Han!
HAN: Hey!
Follow me.
Rebellion!
(SCREAMING)
(GROANS)
They're going for the landing gear!
We've gotta get out of here!
We need to keep 'em away from those cannons!
Catch that!
Coaxium's stowed!
Let's go!
Where's L3?
No more subjugation!
(GROANS)
L3!
No, Lando!
Get back here!
Lando!
L3-37: System failure.
Have to reroute the sensory modulators.
It's all right.
Save your energy.
I'm gonna get you outta here.
All right?
System failure...
(STUTTERS)
(GROANS)
Rerouting...
Damn it!
BECKETT: Han!
Sagwa.
This way!
Come, come!
(GRUNTING)
HAN: Chewie!
Damn it!
L3-37: It's not responding.
(YELLING)
What are you standing around for? Come on!
LANDO: It's okay, you'll be fine.
L3-37: It's not responding...
Not responding...
Han, get us out of here.
It's not responding.
Han! Now!
On it.
(DISTANT CLAMORING)
- L3-37: Lando...
- I'm here.
- It's all right, L3.
- Lando...
- I've got you.
- This is not...
- It's okay, L3.
- Lando.
It's all right. I can fix you.
I can fix you.
Lando.
What's happening to me?
(SHUTS DOWN)
L3?
L3!
(SIGHS)
I'm sorry, girl.
I'm so sorry.
I could use a co-pilot.
Sorry.
With the cargo we're carrying, if we don't make up some lost time we're gonna be in real trouble.
How about that?
Is that real trouble?
That is an Imperial blockade.
What's it doing here?
Probably heard about your little rebellion.
Nope.
Not gonna make it.
We're gonna have to drop the shipment.
If we don't deliver, Dryden will kill us.
All right, trust me, I know these guys.
I used to be one of 'em.
There's no way they're gonna waste a TIE fighter chasing down a little rinky-dink freighter.
You were saying?
LANDO: Usually, in situations like this I like to turn around in the opposite direction.
I'm on the ventral gun.
LANDO: It's an easy equation.
We simply don't have enough time to get to Savareen before the canisters explode!
Just have to find a faster route.
There isn't one!
You can't make the Kessel Run in less than 20 parsecs.
- Watch me.
- How?
Take a shortcut, through there.
- Into The Maelstrom?
- Mmm-hmm.
Spectacular way of killing us all, I'll give you that.
- Can't do it without L3.
- She's gone!
You said yourself she's got the best navigational database in the galaxy.
If we remove her neural core, it's possible we can download her brain into the Falcon's navicomputer, right?
Could we?
Theoretically.
Only one way to find out.
I got a really good feeling about this.
(CHEWIE GROWLING)
HAN: Oops, that's on me.
(EXHALES, CHUCKLES)
Okay.
Beckett, you see them?
They still on us?
(OVER RADIO)
Beckett, did you hear me?
Are they on us?
Like rashnold on a kalak.
I don't know what that means.
Like a gingleson's pelt.
What?
Are they or aren't they?
Yes, they're still on us!
Whoo!
(GRUNTS)
This is why you never let anyone fly your ship.
Come on!
Yeah, one just got past me.
He's right on top of us!
(GROANS)
BECKETT: Good going, Han!
We need to divert auxiliary power to the rear deflector shield.
- We definitely do!
- (CHEWIE GRUNTS)
Since when do you know how to fly?
(GRUNTS)
190 years old?
(GRUNTS)
You look great!
Chewie, get in.
I'll help Lando.
LANDO: Whoa!
That's my cape!
Ah! That's a custom piece!
(YELLS)
What? Beckett, you with us?
We just lost the cannon!
And I really hurt my thumbs.
There's still one on us.
Drop the landing gear.
When I tell you, flood the intake and sweep to the bi-lats.
(GRUNTS)
A little something I picked up from my pal, Needles, best street racer in all of Corellia.
Till he crashed and died, doing this.
Flood it, it's all yours!
(YELLING)
(CHUCKLES) Nice move!
(GRUNTS)
Pull out her internal processor.
Sorry.
QI'RA: We've got L3.
Remove the mod calibrator.
Make sure the T-Line's connected.
QI'RA: I'm gonna tuck it in.
Don't worry.
You close?
That coaxium's getting real ripe.
- (BEEPS)
- Okay.
(HUMMING AND BEEPING)
She's interfacing.
She's part of the ship now.
Where the hell are we?
We're way off the edge of the map.
Wait.
L3's constructing a model of The Maelstrom.
She says we're approaching The Maw.
That doesn't sound like something we wanna be approaching.
(ALL SCREAMING)
Hang on!
HAN: This is The Maw?
LANDO: No, that's not The Maw.
I don't know what this is.
That's a living thing.
There!
That's The Maw.
It's a gravity well.
I got an idea.
BECKETT:
Don't fly toward it, Han!
(CREATURE GRUNTING)
See if it goes for this.
No, what are you doing?
That's the escape pod!
HAN: I know.
Then why'd you do it?
(GROANING)
That's why, baby.
(SCREECHING)
She found a way out.
90 degrees, to the left... ish.
Left-ish.
I can't.
It's taking everything we got to stay out of The Maw.
It's pulling us in.
We're stuck.
We have enough raw coaxium to power a dozen destroyers.
Inject it into the fuel line, it'll blow up the ship.
LANDO: Not the fuel line.
But if we put one drop into the fusion reactor, it might just...
Give us the kick we need.
All right, I'm on it!
(GROWLING)
I know, we're getting dragged in a circle.
(BEEPING)
HAN: Once we get lined up, it's gonna be a straight shot.
As soon as that coaxium ignites, we're gonna tear out of here and the second we're clear of The Maelstrom, we jump to lightspeed.
(SCREECHING)
Beckett!
Can't talk!
I see it.
Beckett, hurry up!
We only get one shot at this thing!
Shut up and let me do this!
Beckett, I'm gonna count you down!
Three!
(GROWLS)
Two!
Now!
Now?
BOTH: Now!
(GROWLS)
Oh, shoot...
(GRUNTS)
Chewie, when I tell you, kick out the thrusters - and jump to lightspeed.
- Wait, what are we...
Remember that alley we slipped through in the Santhe Shipyards?
Yeah, I remember!
I remember it didn't work.
This time it's gonna.
Punch it!
(CREAKING)
HAN: (ON RADIO) Savareen, this is Millennium Falcon.
We have coaxium that needs to be off-loaded immediately.
Like immediately, immediately!
We're here now...
...see you. I...
Just did the Kessel Run in 12 parsecs.
(CHEWIE GROWLS)
Not if you round down, buddy.
Yeah.
She is a hell of a ship.
I hate you.
I know.
I'm gonna be on my ship, in my quarters, waiting for you to bring me my share.
And then I don't ever wanna see you again.
Never?
Where's your boss?
Oh. Don't worry.
He'll be here.
Then what?
Well, you delivered, so you will get paid.
You can buy that ship.
You know that's not what I'm asking.
It can't happen.
Because you're with Dryden?
I'm not with him, but I owe him.
He helped me out of a bad situation.
And how long do you have to pay off that debt?
Everyone serves somebody, Han.
Even Dryden Vos.
Look, you don't want to make an enemy of Crimson Dawn which is exactly what you and I would both be doing if I left here with you.
I'm not afraid of Crimson Dawn.
I can take care of myself.
You know, I'm not the kid you knew on Corellia anymore, Qi'ra.
- No?
- No.
Then who are you?
I'm an outlaw.
(QI'RA CHUCKLES)
What? I'm not kidding.
Okay.
Okay, outlaw, you can tell yourself that, but I might be the only person in the whole galaxy who knows what you really are.
Yeah. (CHUCKLES)
What's that?
You are the good guy.
I am not the good guy.
I am definitely not a good guy.
I'm a terrible person.
BECKETT: Hey!
They say when the coaxium's refined, we collect it up there.
So, I hear you make good brandy.
ENFYS NEST: Beckett.
Don't.
You must've known you'd see me again.
BECKETT: I was counting on it.
Just didn't plan on it being so soon.
Of course now, you've got a problem.
HAN: Big problem.
You happen to notice that freighter down there?
You know what's on it?
About 30 hired guns.
All I gotta do is give 'em the signal, you're surrounded.
(ENGINE POWERING UP)
Sorry.
You do your thing.
By the time that coaxium gets refined, Crimson Dawn will be here, so you go ahead and kill us.
They're gonna kill you.
Perhaps there's a compromise, one that doesn't involve so much killing.
They're marauders.
They don't care about anybody.
All they know how to do is kill.
(CHEWIE GROWLS)
I need a drink.
Bring them inside.
My mother once told me about a band of mercenaries that came to a peaceful planet.
They had a resource there these men coveted, so they took it.
They kept coming back, taking more.
Until finally, the people resisted.
When they returned demanding their tribute, the people shouted back in one voice, "No more!"
The mercenaries didn't like the sound of that, so they cut off the tongue of every last man, woman, and child.
Do you know what that pack of animals became?
Tell them.
Crimson Dawn and the rest of the five Syndicates have committed unspeakable crimes across the galaxy.
Says you.
No.
Says them.
Each of our worlds has been brutalized by the Syndicates.
Crimson Dawn will use their profits from the coaxium you stole to tyrannize system after system in league with the Empire.
And what would you use it for?
The same thing my mother would have used it for if she had survived and still wore the mask.
To fight back.
We're not marauders.
We're allies and the war has just begun.
You know we can't give the coaxium to Dryden Vos.
BECKETT: Joining the cause, Han Solo?
Just trying to make it out alive.
Got a plan?
Yeah, beginning of one.
Way to get our money and get out from under the thumb of Crimson Dawn at the same time.
Maybe get your girlfriend back while we're at it.
You don't tangle with Dryden.
Because unlike us, he actually does travel with hired guns, his own private army.
So does Enfys.
Listen, here's what I got so far.
What do you think they're saying?
He's gonna try to help you.
(GRUNTING)
I see.
Lot of ways it could go south, and only one where it doesn't.
That's why I need my partner.
Not this time.
I'm leaving.
If you're smart, you'll come with me.
I thought you didn't believe in running.
I prefer it to dying.
If by some miracle you make it out of here, find me on Tatooine.
What's on Tatooine?
Heard about a job, big shot gangster putting together a crew.
That'll be the one.
The one?
My last score.
Yeah, I still got some debts to pay before I can head back to Glee Anselm and get into the valachord.
TOHT RA: Welcome home.
He's waiting for you.
QI'RA: Thanks, Toht.
Weapons.
I didn't bring 'em.
They're fine.
We're gonna win.
It's not that kind of game, Han.
The object isn't to win.
It's just to stay in it as long as you can.
You don't know everything.
No.
Just a bit more than you.
(CHEWIE GROWLS)
I knew it!
My men, they all said, "There's no way they pull this off."
"Qi'ra's not ready."
That's what they said, but I had faith anyway.
Where's Beckett?
Beckett didn't make it.
(SIGHS)
Tell me.
Job took a bad turn on Kessel.
He died saving my life.
How are you holding up?
You all right?
I'm okay.
All right, good.
Colo claw fish, anyone?
- No. Thank you.
- No?
You know, whatever Beckett's shortcomings may have been, I always admired him.
He was a man of principles.
When he made a commitment, he honored it and I think we can all take solace in knowing how proud he would've been to see you here, following his example.
Han and Chewbacca behaved admirably.
They'll make reliable smugglers, should we ever have the need when they get their own ship.
Qi'ra.
Come here.
We'd really appreciate the opportunity to work for you again, sir.
I would've been inconsolable if anything had happened to you, my dear.
I have no one else in my life that I trust in the way that I trust you.
Well, I guess we'll just take our payment and get going.
I'm sure you've got competitors to crush...
What?
...and black markets to dominate.
Oh. Show me what you've brought me first.
You want me to open it?
Oh, yes, Han.
I really do.
Bring me one.
(CHUCKLES) I don't think that's a good idea, Dryden.
It's very explosive stuff.
I never ask for anything twice, Han.
Careful.
It's magnificent.
How'd you do it?
Wasn't easy.
No, I mean, how'd you do it?
It looks exactly like the real thing.
(CHUCKLES NERVOUSLY) That's 'cause it is the real thing.
DRYDEN: Yes, and I'm saying I would believe you.
It's that good.
But my associate already told me about your plan to rob me of my money and give the real coaxium to Enfys Nest.
Dryden, I don't know what you're thinking or what Qi'ra may have told you...
No, not Qi'ra.
Not Qi'ra.
Qi'ra, it turns out has a weak spot for you, and we'll deal with that later.
No, I'm talking about my other associate.
Can you come in and join us, please?
(GROWLS)
(SIGHS)
I am sorry, kid.
Why?
Come on.
Don't look at me like that.
You weren't paying attention.
I told you, "Don't trust anybody."
Am I wrong about that?
Uh-uh-uh.
Back away from that.
Put your paws where I can see 'em.
Check that lid.
Clever.
It's too late.
Coaxium's refined, and Enfys has it.
Well, we figured that.
Drop your weapons.
(OVER RADIO): It's over.
We got them.
And there we have it.
Excellent work, Aemon, thank you.
Qi'ra, help me.
Tell me what to do.
What would you do if the person you most trusted in the world betrayed you?
I would want to know why.
If it was a moment of weakness or something else.
And then what?
And then, I would ask that person to prove their loyalty by sacrificing something they love.
I tried to warn you about her.
You know, you're wrong about one thing.
What?
I was paying attention.
You told Chewie people are predictable.
You're no exception.
It's empty.
The case is empty.
Aemon, what's going on?
What's happening there?
Aemon?
Talk to me.
(GRUNTING)
I hope you didn't send all your fancy enforcers because that would leave you a little shorthanded around here.
So, if that case is empty, then the real coaxium...
Leaves here with one of us.
(GROANING)
Beckett, what are you doing?
Thinking.
And I prefer to be the only one holding a blaster while I'm doing it.
Han, grab that coaxium, put it in the case.
Big stuff, you're coming with me.
(GROWLS)
DRYDEN: Don't do this, Beckett.
- We had a deal.
- BECKETT: Yeah.
I'm sorry, but I'm also an entrepreneur.
I mean, you of all people understand that.
Come on, let's go.
You're making a huge mistake.
Won't be my first.
It's gonna be your last.
Maybe.
Why you gotta be so negative?
DRYDEN: Han, now's as good a time as any to reevaluate our relationship.
How so?
DRYDEN: I was just thinking, why don't we join forces and go get Beckett together?
That is a great idea.
Let's do it. You go first.
DRYDEN: (LAUGHS) Oh, Han.
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(PANTING)
You can't win, Han, and even if you could, you'd spend the rest of your life looking over your shoulder.
HAN: You know what?
I'm kind of getting used to the idea.
(GRUNTING)
I'm sorry.
Han, she's done things that you could never understand, but I do.
I understand her completely.
Once you're a part of Crimson Dawn, you can't leave.
It's not true.
I know you.
It's what I was taught.
Find your opponent's weakness, and use it, and today...
(BOTH GRUNT)
I'm yours.
(QI'RA PANTING)
I had to.
Yeah.
No, I mean, you did...
You did.
Beckett and Chewbacca, you have to go after them.
What are you gonna do?
Well, if we give all the coaxium to Enfys, we're gonna need something to buy our ship with.
- Qi'ra...
- Go and save Chewbacca.
He needs you and you're gonna need him, too.
Smile.
That's the word.
Whenever I imagined myself off with you on some adventure...
Always makes me smile.
Go. I'm right behind you.
[Qi'ra turns on the holographic communicator with Dryden Vos' superior, a mysterious hooded figure with robotic legs]
Hooded Superior: Yes?
Qi'ra: I regret to inform you that Dryden Vos is dead. Murdered by the thief he hired to steal the coaxium shipment. His friend, Tobias Beckett.
Hooded Superior: Is that so? Where is the shipment now?
Qi'ra: Gone. Beckett took it. Slaughtered the others. I alone survived.
[The hooded figure pulls back his hood, revealing himself to be Darth Maul]
Maul: One man couldn't have done this alone.
Qi'ra: I wasn't there. But if I had been, perhaps I could've saved him.
[Maul snarls, then chuckles. He holds out his arm, and his lightsaber flies into his hand from off-screen. He stands.]
Maul: Bring the ship and come to me on Dathomir, and you and I will then decide what to do about traitor Beckett, and his accomplices.
Qi'ra: I'm on my way.
[Qi'ra prepares to shut off the communicator, but Maul ignites his lightsaber, stopping her.]
Maul: Qi'ra, you and I will be working much more closely from now on.
[Maul turns off his lightsaber before shutting down the communicator]
(GROWLING)
You're relentless.
I'll give you that.
(CHEWIE GROWLING)
Came as fast as I could, buddy.
Dryden dead?
Qi'ra kill him?
Still don't get it, do you, kid?
It was never about you.
She's a survivor.
You know what your problem is?
You think everybody's like you.
Not you, kid.
You're nothing like me.
I hope you're still paying attention because now I'm gonna tell you the most important...
(GROWLS)
- (HAN PANTING)
- (CHEWIE GROWLING)
You made the smart move, kid.
For once.
I woulda killed you.
I really was gonna learn to play that valachord.
I know.
(GROANS)
(ENGINE POWERING UP)
(GROWLING)
That's it.
It's all loaded.
Do you know what that really is?
Yeah.
About 60 million credits worth of refined coaxium.
No.
It's the blood that brings life to something new.
Yeah, what?
A rebellion.
You could come with us, you know.
We need warriors and leaders like you.
Maybe someday you'll feel different.
Don't hold your breath, kid.
Don't lose that.
- (GROWLS)
- (CHUCKLES)
LANDO: Very few people have actually seen the StarCave Nebula.
It's breathtaking.
Not unlike your eyes.
How much do you know about intertwined celestial bodies?
Because I happen to be something of an authority.
By the way...
(GUARD SPEAKS ALIEN LANGUAGE)
Han!
You're alive!
Yeah, no thanks to you.
I should have Chewie rip your arms off.
- In fact, Chewie, do it.
- (GROWLS)
Hey, Han!
We are friends.
You know that.
We're friends. All right?
(CHUCKLES)
Oh, look at you.
Thought he was gonna rip your arms off.
I knew you were kidding.
No, you didn't.
- So, where's my cut?
- Your cut?
(GROWLING)
No, I don't think so.
We barely made it out alive.
All we ended up with was that.
Mmm-mmm.
Figure it's worth about 10,000, maybe enough for a decent buy-in.
You want a rematch?
Why not?
(ALL CHEERING)
LANDO: You fold now, you walk away with enough to get yourself your own little ship.
You call, I'm gonna clean you out again.
- (ALL EXCLAIMING)
- (CHEWIE GROWLS)
I don't know, I'm feeling lucky.
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
Ooh. (CHUCKLES)
You really have it bad for the Falcon, don't you?
It's mutual, trust me.
She belongs with me.
(LANDO CHUCKLES)
You got everything you need there, pal?
(CHUCKLES)
(ALL CHEERING)
Not bad.
Not bad. You know, if you'd only had this little green sylop, you would've beaten this.
- (ALL CHEERING)
- (CHEWIE GROWLING)
Fair and square, baby.
Fair and square.
Beckett said he heard about this very big gangster putting together a job.
- (GROWLING)
- No, I'm telling ya, it's gonna be great. When have I ever steered you wrong?
(GROWLS)

Clone Wars : Animated Series

Ep 1 - Ambush 
Narrator: Great leaders inspire greatness in others. A galaxy, divided by war. Peaceful worlds must choose sides or face the threat of invasion. Republican Seperatist armies vie for the allegiance of neutral planets Desparate to build a Republic supply base in the system of Toydaria, Jedi Master Yoda travels to secret negotiations on a remote neutral moon.
Alien: We are getting no signal from the republic your heighness.
King Katuunko: I don't see anything. It is not like the Jedi to be late.
Asajj Ventress: Greetings, King Katuunko.
King Katuunko: Who are you?
Asajj Ventress: I am only a messenger majesty. My master wishes to speak with you.
Count Dooku (Hologram): Katuunko, Great king of Toydaria, forgive my intrusion.
King Katuunko: Count Dooku.
Count Dooku (Hologram): I am aware Master Yoda hopes you will allow the Jedi to build a Republic base in your system. in exchange for protection, correct?
King Katuunko: Your spies serve you well, Count.
Count Dooku (Hologram): I ask, How can the Jedi protect you, if they cannot protect themselves?
Republican Envoy: Toydarian Royal Delegation, this is the Republican envoy, please respond. General, the Toydarians beacon is active on the moon, but all our transmissions are being jammed.
Battle Droid: We caught them by surprise alright!
Republican Envoy: We're losing our shields.
Yoda: Too late it is, sprung is the trap.
Republican Envoy: I must get you to safety General.
Yoda: Retreat you must, on the moon below, is my mission. There, I must go.
King Katuunko: I suppose you and your droid armies can do better?
Count Dooku (Hologram): Without a doubt. I sense you are one who respects strength, your heighness. Our droid armies outnumber the Republic clones 100 to 1.
King Katuunko: Perhaps, But I have heard, That a single Jedi equals 100 battle droids.
Yoda: Quickly now, Reach the planets surface we must.
Republican Envoy: In an escape pod sir? The enemy will fire at anything we launch.
Yoda: Then launch all of them, you will.
Count Dooku (Hologram): Master Yoda's powers have been greatly exaggerated.
King Katuunko: That remains to be seen Count.
Count Dooku (Hologram): Indeed But when you decide to join us, my apprentice will contact me.
Battle Droid Commander: Hang on, almost What a terrible shot.
Battle Droid: Ah well, It's my programming.
Rys: That was a close one.
Lieutenant Thire: General, I think we're out of range.
Yoda: I agree, But, entering another trap we are.
Rys: Are you sure?
Yoda: A disturbance in the force, there is.
Asajj Ventress: My Lord, Master Yoda's warship has fled the system. What further evidence do you require of the Jedi's weakness?
King Katuunko: This is King Katuunko. Speak.
Lieutenant Thire: Master Yoda would like to talk with you sir.
Yoda: A pleasure it is, to hear your voice, your heighness. Master Yoda, of the Jedi Council this is.
King Katuunko: Master Jedi, I though perhaps Count Dooku had, frightened you off.
Yoda (Hologram): Delayed have I been, but not too far away am I now. Unaware I was, Count Dooku was invited to our meeting.
King Katuunko: The Count invited himself. He assures me that in this time of war, his droids can offer me greater security than your Jedi.
Yoda (Hologram): Hmmm, a matter of debate that is.
Asajj Ventress: Your Majesty might prefer more than words.
King Katunnko: What do you have in mind?
Asajj Ventress: If Yoda is indeed the Jedi warrior you believe he is, let him prove it. Allow me to send my best troops to capture him. If he escapes, join the Republic. But should my droids defeat Yoda, consider an alliance with the Seperatists.
King Katunnko: I did not request Yoda's presence here to test him in battle.
Yoda (Hologram): Accept the challenge I do, your heighness. Arrive by nightfall, I will. (Calls off)
King Katunnko: Master Yoda must be given a fair fight.
Asajj Ventress: My dear King Katuunko, I would have it no other way.
Yoda: Beautiful this moon is. Amazing the universe is.
Rys: There's gotta be a full battalion in there. Probably packin' armor too.
Jek: We'll have somethin' for 'em.
Asajj Ventress: I'm deploying my forces, master.
Count Dooku (Hologram): Yoda has made a grave mistake, straying this far from Coruscant.
Asajj Ventress: I will see the Jedi gets his "fair" fight.
Yoda: Carry only what you need, slow you down it will. Destroy Ventress, your weapons will not. Come lieutenant. Hurry we must.
Lieutenant Thire: Sir, the rendezvous point is that way.
Yoda: As is our enemy. To reach our goal, a straight path we will not follow.
Lieutenant Thire: Let's move it boys.
Asajj Ventress: Find Master Yoda.
Battle Droid: Ahh, what does he look like?
Asajj Ventress: He'll be the small shriveled green one, with the light saber.
Battle Droid: Small huh? Don't worry Supreme Leader, we'll take care of him.
Battle Droid Commander: I think I see them. They're hiding deep in the trees. Fire on Sector 11.
Yoda: At ease be, my friends, within range we are not.
Battle Droid Commander: Hold it, Hold it. I said hold it! That's far enough! I mean it! Stop I said Stop! We're too big to fit in there.
Battle Droid Commander #2: No we're not, watch this. You were right.
Battle Droid Commander: Next time listen to orders.
Lieutenant Thire: Those tanks are too big to follow.
Yoda: See, see? Size is not everything. Smaller in number are we, but larger in mind.
Jek: Do you have any idea what the General was talkin' about?
Rys: How should I know? There's no figurin' a Jedi Master.
Battle Droid Commander: Infantry, advance. Go get 'em boys.
Lieutenant Thire: Sir, there are two patrols coming in on foot.
Yoda: Now is the time to face the enemy lieutenant. Ambush them we will.
Lieutenant Thire: We'll flank them from the South.
Jek: Right, let's move.
Battle Droid: What was that? Blast him! Look, little green life form. You bucket head, that's the Jedi! He is a little one. Blast him! Split up by squad and spread out. Roger roger, roger roger.
Jek: Okay clankers, SUCK LASER! Where's the General?
Lieutenant Thire: I don't know, we got separated. Clankers! Fall back, there too many of them.
Battle Droid: He's around here somewhere. Hey, get off of me! Don't move. (Hologram) The Jedi destroyed our advance troops.
King Katuunko: Master Yoda is living up to my expectations.
Asajj Ventress: Commander, have you pinpointed the Jedi's location?
Battle Droid Commander (Hologram): Affirmative. The clones gave away their position. Our heavy troops are moving to engage them now.
Jek: I hope the General reaches the rendezvous point.
Rys: This should buy him time. Lieutenant, can you walk?
Lieutenant Thire: I think I'm okay.
Super Battle Droid: Die Republic dog!
Lieutenant Thire: What are we gonna do sir?
Jek: What's the General doing?
Rys: Keep blasting!
Super Battle Droid: Hey, what's going on? Get out of the way, all of you! I'm having a serious malfunction! Don't shoot! I'm on your side!
Lieutenant Thire: You found us just in time sir.
Yoda: Left behind, no one will be.
Lieutenant Thire: Rollers, inbound.
Yoda: Retreat! Cover you, I will.
Battle Droid (Hologram): Republic troops are injured, the Jedi is in full retreat Supreme Leader.
Asajj Ventress: Good. Pursue them without delay.
King Katuunko: The contest is not over yet. Master Yoda, I hear you're having trouble with the droid army?
Yoda (Hologram): Trouble? I know nothing of this trouble. Look forward to our meeting soon I do.
Asajj Ventress: Look forward to our meeting soon I do. The Jedi won't allude me for long.
Lieutenant Thire: Are you sure we should go in there General?
Yoda: There's no way out. Now rest, we must.
Rys: We're low on ammo sir. Only 2 grenades, and 1 rocket for the launcher.
Jek: Against a battalion? Forget it, we've lost.
Yoda: So certain of defeat, are you?
Lieutenant Thire: With respect General, maybe you should go on. Let us slow 'em down.
Yoda: All around us, is that with which we need to prevail is. Come, sit. Your helmets, remove them. Your faces I wish to see.
Lieutenant Thire: There's not much to look at here sir. We all share the same face.
Yoda: Deceive you, eyes can. In the force, very different each one of you are. Rys, always focuse on the enemy, are you. For inspiration, look to yourself, and those beside you. Jek, concerned about weapons you are. Weapons do not win battles. Your mind, powerful it is. Out think the droids, you can. Thire, rush not into fights, Long is the war, Only by surviving it, will you prevail. Yes. Clones you may be, but the force resides in all life forms. Use it you can, to quiet your mind.
Rys: Tanks. Is that the best they can throw at us?
Jek: Yeah, but I've only got one shot left.
Yoda: Greet them I will.
Lieutenant Thire: General, you don't plan to take that whole column by yourself?
Yoda: Have you three I do. Outnumbered are they. Know the time to help me, you will.
Battle Droid Commander: It's the Jedi! Block his escape! Prepare to fire! (Hologram) Supreme Leader, we found the Jedi.
Asajj Ventress: Excellent. Where is he?
Battle Droid Commander (Hologram): He's just sitting here, in front of our tanks.
Asajj Ventress: Shoot him, shoot him now!
Battle Droid Commander: Quickly! Ready, Aim, Fire! Fire! He's gone under the tank! Oh no! Run for it! But, I, just, got promoted.
Jek: Doesn't look like the General needs help to me.
Battle Droid Commander #2: We've got him in our sights.
King Katuunko: That's a lot of smoke, for a surrender.
Asajj Ventress: Report. What's going on over there? Where is 224?
Battle Droid (Hologram): Supreme Leader. The Jedi has overrun our position and--
King Katuunko: I think perhaps all those stories about the Jedi are true.
Asajj Ventress: The fight isn't over yet, Majesty.
Lieutenant Thire: The General's cutting 'em up. We've got trouble. Clankers sent reenforcements. General's too busy with that tank, he won't see 'em coming. I think I know how to deal with them.
Jek: Yeah! Great shot sir!
Lieutenant Thire: That's givin' it to the clankers.
Yoda: Learned something today, have you lieutenant?
Lieutenant Thire: I think we all did General.
Yoda: Come, behind schedule are we. Not polite to be late.
King Katuunko: You were right, Dooku. One Jedi is not worth 100 battle droids. More like, 1,000. I'm sorry, but I will be joining the Republic.
Count Dooku: I urge you to reconsider wise king. I promise you won't regret it.
King Katuunko: Your agent also promised me Yoda would get a fair fight. I will not deal with those who break their words.
Count Dooku (Hologram): So be it. Perhaps our negotiations will be more fruitful with your successor. Ventress, kill him!
King Katuunko: Jedi Master Yoda. I am very pleased to meet you, at last.
Yoda: Share the feeling, I do, King Katoonku. Failed you, Ventress has. Count.
Asajj Ventress: I don't fear you Jedi.
Yoda: Strong you are with the dark side young one. but not that strong. Still much to learn you have. Surrendur, you should. In the end, cowards are those who follow the dark side.
Count Dooku (Hologram): It's a pity I wasn't there in person, my old master.
Yoda: A pity, indeed, my fallen apprentice. Perhaps now, begin negotiations we can.
King Katuunko: That is not necessary, my friend. You have my faith. Toydaria would be honored to host a Republic base. My people, are at your service.
Yoda: Your Majesty, fail you, we will not.
[End of Ambush]


Ep 2 - Rising Malevolence

Narrator:The clone starfleet is under seige! Dozens of Republic warships have been destroyed in merciless surprise attacks that leaves no survivors. Rumours spread of a terrible new Separatist weapon. In the face of growing fear, the Jedi Council sends Master Plo Koon to hunt down the menace before it strikes again....

Belief is not a matter of choice, but of conviction. The clone starfleet is under seige. Dozens of Republic warships have been destroyed in merciless surprise attacks that leave no survivors. Rumors spread of a terrible new Separatist weapon. In the face of growing fear, The Jedi Council sends Master Plo Koon to hunt down the menace before it strikes again. The enemy ship has reduced its speed General. They must have realized we're tracking them. We're tracking 3 Republic cruisers. What should we do? Jam their transmissions. The fleet is holding its position sire. I think it wise to report our position before we attack. Skywalkers' fleet is nearby, in the Bith system. Good. Perhaps he can reinforce us. From what I hear, Skywalker's always ready for a fight. So I've heard. Koh-to-ya, Master Plo. Koh-to-ya, little Soka. How's the hunt for the mystery weapon going? We've tracked it to the Abregado system. We need reinforcements. I'll have to ask the Council Master Plo. I was given strict orders to protect our staging area. Master Plo, what's happening What is wrong with the transmission? There's too much interference sir. We've lost 'em. You heard Master Plo, He needs our support. We have to go help him. We have to see what the Council decides first. This is an important meeting, Ahsoka. Remember, be mindful, and speak only when spoken to. This mystery weapon has struck in a dozen systems, and disappeared without a trace. We cannot afford to lose anymore ships my friends. Master Skywalker. Have you had any success in finding General Grievous' secret weapon? Master Plo was here in the Abregado system when we lost contact. - The enemy ship is closing. - Prepare for battle. General Grievous, this will be a suitable test for our new weapon. You may fire when ready. Yes my lord. We're picking up a large energy reading from the target sir. - Open fire. - We're not in range yet sir. Fire! Brace for impact! We're losing all our power. That energy field has left us defenceless. - Their shields are down. - All cannons, fire. Their tearing us apart one by one. Quickly, into the pods. We don't have much time, get inside, hurry! Another successful test, wouldn't you say Count? We must keep our position secret. Send out the hunters. I want all of those lifepods destroyed. We've had no further contact with General Plo Koon. The absence of distress beacons indicates that his fleet was that his fleet was destroyed, like the others. We are about to prepare a rescue mission. Hasn't clone intelligence reported this weapon never leaves any survivors? The Separatists are being unusually tidy. They don't want any witnesses. Tragic are these losses, but prevent more, we must. The power grid is burned out. We've no engines, communications or life support recharge. So, we'll just sit here, and hold our breath. Someone will come looking for us, right? Let's get the power restored, so we are here to be found. All our battle groups will be reassigned to guard our supply convoys. Including yours Skywalker. I'm afraid we can't risk any more ships with a rescue mission. Wait! Just because there haven't been any survivors before, doesn't mean there won't be any this time. Boldly spoken for one so young. She is learning from Anakin. Excuse my padawan. We will deploy, as you've instructed, Master. Ahsoka! If anyone could survive, Master Plo could. - I don't understand why - What you don't understand, is Jedi protocol, or your place, my young padawan. Admiral. We'll split up our ships to maximize our defense area. I'll scout ahead for enemy activity. Isn't that risky, with the mystery weapon out there? It might be, but I know you won't argue my orders. Come on Snips. The air in here's getting a bit stale. Don't look at me, it's Boost sir. He only takes a bath when he's on leave. Save it. Just keep working on the pod, not your jokes. Do you think we've got a chance General? I don't believe in chance Commander. I know if we work together we will stay alive, and someone will find us. With all due respect General, strategically it doesn't make any sense for someone to come look for us. If I was in command, I'd be huntin' that weapon down. I value your life, - more than finding that weapon. - Sir. There's another pod out there. If we only had power we could contact them. How 'bout we just wave hello when the viewport comes around. . They're dead. Someone busted that pod wide open. We are not alone out here. Set those new coordinates R2? Master, I should tell you why I spoke up before You don't have to explain anything. R2, set up the scanner, modulate for incoming, "mystery" weapons. No, R2, tune the scanners for life forms. highest sensitivity. Why would we scan for life forms to spot an enemy weapon probably just filled with, battledroids? The Abregado system. So it's okay when you don't follow what the council says! Doing what the Jedi Council says, that's one thing, how we go about doing it, that's another. That's what I'm trying to teach you my young padawan. So you always meant to come out here for survivors? Lives are in danger Asohka, we can't just turn our backs on them. That's what I said back in the briefing room! I know, but the way you said it was wrong. Hurry up, switch on the illuminator. We haven't got much time before the fleet misses us. No, that's not it. This one goes there, that one goes there. Are you sure? We don't want to make things worse. How, are we gonna make things worse? When you ask for trouble, you should not be surprised when it finds you. I think trouble already found us sir. What if we connect these two wires, right here? I'm getting something. pod 197we're under attack. Is anyone out there? It's one of our other pods. I repeat, we are under attack. Is anyone out there? That signal is weak, they must be close by. They've locked onto our ship! Go get 'em boys! Our position is mark 12, at point 26. - Let's cut this can open. - I have visual contact. Pod 1977, do you copy? The droids are hunting for survivors. They're cutting through! There they go. Things, just got a lot worse. The scanners are practically useless. Got anything on the emergency channel R2? Now Ahsoka, we might find something you don't want to find. I know Master, but I have to believe. How do you know Master Plo anyway? He's one of my oldest friends. It was Master Plo Koon who found me, and brought me to the temple where I belonged. Now he's lost, so I thought, maybe I could find him. Incoming transmission Master. Anakin, where are you? Hello Master. Uh, we made a quick stop in the Abregado system. - You have other orders. - It was my idea Master Obi-Wan. Oh I'm sure. - Well, have you found any survivors? - No, you were right. The Separatists don't want any witnesses. All the more reason for you to rejoin the defensive escorts. We need you, Anakin. You're going to miss the rendezvous with the fleet if you don't hurry. I know Master. We're on our way. I'm sorry Ahsoka. What is it R2? R2 thinks he's got something on the emergency channel. Can he trace it? Let's get going. I think they see us. Corporal, there's another pod over there. It is time to go. Go? Where are you going sir? Outside to destroy the enemy. I can withstand the pressure for a brief time. Put your helmets on. If you say so sir. Wolf, keep the communications signal alive. It is our only chance someone will find us. Let's just hope someone's looking for us. Are we still picking up that signal? Yes, but why aren't we finding anybody? I don't know Ahsoka, I don't know. Well, this looks like the last one. Let's finish the job. Is there anyone out there? This is Ahsoka Tano. Can anyone here me? Time to put the squeeze on them. Is there anyone out there? Come in. - This is Ahsoka Tano. - It's Ahsoka. - She must be close. - Keep the signal alive, commander. R2, see if you can boost the reception. Patience. We're trying to boost the power. Hang on. We're losing the signal. The pod can't take much more damage. - Sinker, your turn. - I'm on it boss. What the Eat lazer clankers. Sir, we've lost contact with the pod hunter. Perhaps some survivors are putting up a fight. That is something we cannot allow. We must find a way to destroy this mystery weapon. In this war, a step ahead of us, Dooku always seems. Tell me, has there been any word from Master Plo Koon or his fleet? No, we must fear the worst. Actually, I just received word that Anakin has found the remains of Master Plo's fleet and is searching the debris for survivors. On whose authority has he done this? His own, I'm afraid. With his fleet out of position, we are left vulnerable. Oh his fleet is right where it should be, He's taken only a small ship, and his padawan. Twice the trouble, they have become. A wreckless decision, Skywalker has made. Let us hope it is not a costly one. Well, General, another fine mess we've gotten into. Your sense of humor is improving. I don't mean to say I told you so, but I never believed anyone would come looking for us. Anakin, the Council is furious. Why, have you left your post? I decided we couldn't just give up on Master Plo Koon. A noble gesture, Anakin. But the Council feels your daring may put others in danger. Please, listen to me Anakin. Return at once. Yes, Exellency. Time to go Ahsoka. We have to stay. Ahsoka, I want to believe Master Plo is alive but I know he's alive! I can sense it. Seargent, why are you so certain no one is coming? We're just clones sir. We're meant to be expendible. Not to me. - There they are! - Ready tow cable Cable loaded Master. Come on, hurry! Are you okay Master Plo? There's someone in the pod. Will they be alright? The pressure suits offer some protection, but they require a medical frigate for recovery. I will stabilize them sir. Your men are safe now. Tell me, were there any survivors? We couldn't find anybody else. The hunters must have destroyed the rest. I'm sorry, Master Plo. We tracked the mystery weapon to this system, that is when we found out it was an ion cannon. An ion cannon? A weapon that neutralizes all power to our ships, leaving the targets defenseless. There's a massive vessel approaching. Shut down the power systems before they detect us. The droid! Sorry little guy. That is one big, cruiser crusher. There's still no signal from the pod hunter. Reduce speed and activate your scanners. We will find who is responsible. - Hey, what's with the lights? - Power is gone out. Maybe that ship has returned. We should get up to the bridge. You're too weak. Let me go see what is wrong. We're picking up a faint signal from a droid, it's not one of ours. They're right behind us. Move us into attack position. They're coming back. Are all the systems shut down? Is there a problem sir? We forgot to shut off the medical droid. We've got to get the power back on now. - May I be of assistance? - No thanks. Just get in the back and take care of the clones. That is my programming, sir. - Come on, we've gotta get out of here. - I know! I know! Sir, the enemy is attempting to flee through the debris field. General, I don't want any witnesses. Energize plasma rotors. R2, program the navicomputer. Be ready to get us out of here. You forgot, we turned him off! 'Cotooya' droid. Target range almost locked sir. They're not going to make it. R2, program the hyperdrive. Anywhere, hurry! Enemy ship targeted General. Fire! Master? We're clear. Now the Republic will learn of our ion cannon. Your failure is most unfortunate. I will have to discuss this, with my Master. - Get back to work! - Roger roger. Thanks for getting us out of there in one piece General Skywalker. You have my padawan to thank for that. She always said you guys would pull through. General Plo said someone would come for us, we're glad he was right. Skywalker, it is time to give our report to the Council. Right, the Council report Come on, Ahsoka. You want me there? - I figured because of before - Asohka, through it all you never gave up, You did a great job. But, if I'm getting in trouble for this, you're gonna share some of the blame too. so come on, let's go. Right beside you, Master.

Ep 3 -Shadow of Malevolence 

Narrator: Easy is the path to wisdom for those not blinded by ego. A deadly weapon unleashed! The Separatist battleship Malevolence advances unopposed through Republic space, tearing apart any ship that stands in its path. After a daring rescue and narrow escape, Anakin Skywalker prepares a counterattack on the enemy ship and its diabolical droid commander, General Grievous



REPUBLIC WARSHIP

Admiral Yularen: This strike force has been commissioned by the Senate to hunt down the enemys new battleship. As the bulk of our fleets are engaged on the front lines, well be on our own. General Skywalker has prepared our attack strategy.

Anakin Skywalker: Thank you, Admiral. 

Malevolence hologram appears. 

Anakin: While our capital ships are vulnerable to the enemys attack, I believe a squad of bombers can outmanoeuvre their ion weapon. Our target will be the bridge and General Grievous.

Matchstick: The head clanker. Skywalkers getting pretty ambitious.

Anakin: Our bombers will attack at high speed to evade the enemys ion weapon. Well concentrate our firepower on the bridge superstructure, here. We destroy General Grievous and the ship will fall with him. Any questions?

Matchstick: Just tell us where that metal head is, sir.

Broadside: Yeah, weve been waiting for a chance to take him out.

Anakin: Alright, men, settle down. We destroy Grievous, we can bring the war to a quicker end. Pilots, prepare your bombers.

End of the explanation, Plo Koon and Ahsoka Tano arrive.

Plo Koon: Skywalker, this is an aggressive plan. Are you sure your squadron can complete this mission?

Anakin: Lets ask them. Matchstick! You think our boys can pull it off?

Matchstick: Yes, sir! There hasnt been a mission Shadow Squadron couldnt complete. Thats right. Minimal casualties, maximum effectiveness. Thats us.

Plo Koon: I admire your confidence, pilot. Even so, minimal casualties may be enough to prevent you from breaking Grievous defences.

Ahsoka Tano: Master Plo is right. With Grievous on that ships bridge, its bound to be well protected.

Anakin: Dont worry, Ahsoka. Well destroy that bridge, and Grievous along with it.

Plo Koon: Master Skywalker seems to inspire great confidence in his men.

Ahsoka: He does lead by example.



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

General Grievous: So much for the Jedi escort.

Random Droid: The last transport is fleeing, General. Youve got them on the run.

Grievous: They wont get far. Charge the plasma rotors!



LAST TRANSPORT

Random Clone: Theyre moving to attack position, sir.

Random Clone: Still setting the coordinates.

Random Clone: Are we clear to make the jump to hyperspace?



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

General Grievous: Fire ion weapon!



LAST TRANSPORT

Random Clone: Weve lost all power!



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

Random Droid: Boy, this is a lot more fun when theyre not shooting back.

Random Droid: I still cant seem to hit anything.

General Grievous destroys the droid.

Count Dooku (Hologram): Grievous, those battle droids are expensive. The Jedi are never that harsh with their clones.

Grievous: The care these Jedi show for their troops is a weakness.

Dooku (Hologram): A weakness we shall continue to exploit. I have the coordinates for a new target.

Republics secret Outer Rim Medical Station Hologram appears.

Dooku (Hologram): The Republics secret Outer Rim medical station. It is unprotected and treating over 60,000 wounded clones. We will do them a favour and put them out of their misery. Once you have destroyed it, there will be nowhere for the Jedi to send their wounded, and they will die.

Grievous: It will be a pleasure, my lord.

Dooku (Hologram): I feel very confident leaving the ship under your command, General.

Dooku Hologram disappears.

Escape pods appear from the last transport.

Random Droid: General!

Grievous: Target those escape pods! I have a reputation to uphold.



REPUBLIC WARSHIP

Ahsoka Tano: Which ones mine?

Anakin Skywalker: Youre with me. Youll be my gunner.

Ahsoka acts deceived.

Anakin: Somebodys got to watch my back.

Ahsoka: Broadside could do that. Besides, you have R2.

Anakin: But I so enjoy your company, my Padawan.

Ahsoka: Just admit it. You dont like my flying.

Anakin: Well, no, I No, its not that. Its just I

Plo Koon and Admiral Yularen arrive.

Plo Koon: Skywalker. The enemy warship has attacked our convoy of medical transports near Ryndellia.

Ahsoka: Medical transports? Only General Grievous would go after clones who cant fight back.

Anakin: The Ryndellia system Near Naboo! Isnt that where our medical base is? Ill bet that will be his next target.

Plo Koon: There are many star clusters in that area. With a ship that big, he will be unable to chart a course thats less than 10 parsecs.

Anakin: Looks like were gonna have to take a shortcut. Admiral, warn that station whats coming.

Plo Koon: This journey may be treacherous. If you lose any ships before you reach the target

Anakin: We wont lose anybody.

Plo Koon: I will come along and fly fighter escort.

Anakin: Any help is welcome, Master Plo. Just try not to fall behind.

Anakin and Admiral Yularen leave.

Ahsoka: I had a feeling youd be coming along. Your ship has already been prepped.



SECRET OUTER RIM MEDICAL STATION

Nala Se: Even if we had the transports, it is not possible to evacuate all of our wounded in time.

Admiral Yularen (Hologram): You must try. You wont stand a chance against that battleship.

Obi-Wan Kenobi (Hologram): Nala Se, I only just received word. Ive contacted the Naboo. They are sending ships to help you. And I am on my way, as well.

Nala Se: Thank you, Master Jedi.

Holograms disappear.

Random Clone: Even if they reach us in time, do you really think theyre going to stop that thing?

Nala Se: It is our only hope.



REPUBLIC WARSHIP BRIDGE

Admiral Yularen: Launch the fighters.



SHADOW SQUADRON

Obi-Wan Kenobi (Call from Ship): I hope you know what youre doing, Anakin.

Anakin Skywalker: Well, if I dont, I wont be around to hear the I told you so.

Obi-Wan (Call): Thats reassuring. Well, take your shortcut, and Ill take the long way. But you better be there before I arrive.

Anakin: Ill be there, Obi-Wan.

Obi-Wan ends call.

Anakin: Shadow Squadron, tighten formation. Call in.

Shadow 2: Shadow 2, standing by.

Shadow 3: Shadow 3, standing by.

Shadow 4: Shadow 4, standing by.

R2-D2 speaks to Ahsoka.

Ahsoka Tano: I know R2. This is gonna be a tough one.

Anakin: Cut the chatter, Ahsoka.

Sadow 11: Shadow 11, standing by.

Shadow 12: Shadow 12, standing by.

Fighter Escort and Plo Koon arrive.

Plo Koon: Fighter escort ready.

Admiral Yularen (Call from Ship): This is Admiral Yularen. You are cleared for hyperspace jump. Good hunting, sir.

Anakin: Thanks, Admiral. Alright boy, lets go.

Matchstick: Broadside, if we make it through this one, drinks are on me.

Broadside: I can already taste it.



MALEVOLENCE IN HYPERSPACE

General Grievous: Whats taking so long? I want to get there before too many wounded clones escape.

Random Droid: Sorry, sir. The navicomputer has had to calculate a complex course around a large nebula near the medical station.

Grievous: They told me this ship was fast!



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Shadow Squadron and Fighter Escort leave hyperspace.

Anakin Skywalker: Okay, if we can just manage to navigate through my shortcut, well be alright.

Plo Koon: A nebula can be very unpredictable. I advise caution.

Matchstick: Dont worry about us, Master Jedi. We can hold our own. Right, Shadow Squadron?

Random Clone: Copy that, Shadow 2

Ahsoka Tano: Does anyone care what the Padawan thinks?

Anakin: Of course we care, Snips! But were still going through that nebula.

R2-D2 conforts Ahsoka.

Ahsoka: Thanks, R2.



SECRET OUTER RIM MEDICAL STATION

Random Clone: The evacuation is proceeding slowly, madam.

Nala Se: We will have to move the patients in stable condition first. The more critically injured will have to wait.

Random Clone: What about the batch tanks? Many of those men cant be moved at all.

Nala Se: I know, Commander. Guide the patients that can be moved onto transports as quickly as you can.

Random Clone: At once, madam.



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Matchstick: This soup is thick. Can you see anything?

Anakin Skywalker: Just keep your eyes on my thruster, Shadow 2.

Ahsoka Tano: Theyll have to. The scanners are useless.

Anakin: This is old-fashioned flying. You have to feel your way through to stay on course.

Plo Koon: Skywalker is right, Ahsoka. Clear your mind, young one, and you will see the path.

Ahsoka: Right now, I cant see anything at all.

Broadside: I always know where Im going.

Matchstick: Yeah? Wheres that, Broadside?

Broadside: Im going to blow up that battleship.

Plo Koon: A clear path if ever there was one.



MALEVOLENCE IN HYPERSPACE

Random Droid: Sir, the navicomputer indicates we only have one parsec to go.

General Grievous: Good. We will maximise our casualties with this attack.

Random Droid: General, theres an incoming transmission from Count Dooku.

Count Dooku Hologram appears.

Count Dooku (Hologram): General Grievous, I have received intelligence from Lord Sidious. The Republic has launched a small strike force to attack the Malevolence.

Grievous: Let the Republic come! Our ship is unstoppable!

Dooku (Hologram): Skywalker is leading the mission. Do not underestimate him.

Grievous: I assure you, Count, if anything, it is Skywalker who will underestimate this ship and its power.



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Ahsoka Tano: So Skyguy, how did you know about this shortcut?

Anakin Skywalker: Its an old smugglers route. The pilots used to talk about it on Tatooine.

Ahsoka: Smugglers route? Ha! That makes me feel better!

Anakin: They call it Balmorra Run.

Plo Koon: Balmorra Run?

Ahsoka: I think Im picking up a contact.

Plo Koon: Skywalker! Listen to me! We need to turn around!

Anakin: We cant. Not if were gonna catch Grievous.

Ahsoka: Another contact! This ones much larger.

Plo Koon: Skywalker! Balmorras the nesting ground of the giant Nearby mantas!

Ahsoka: Another? Another!

Many giant Nearby mantas appear.

Anakin: Take evasive action!

Ahsoka: Those gas-gulpers are huge!

Plo Koon: Dont shoot, or theyll panic!

Ahsoka: Theyll panic? Im about to panic! There are so many of them!

Matchstick hits a giant Nearby manta.

Matchstick: Im hit! My stabilisers out!

Anakin: Pull it together, Matchstick!

Matchstick fixes the issue.

Matchstick: Im okay. I got it.

Ahsoka: These things are gonna make a meal out of us!

Anakin: All wings, line up behind me!

Random Clone: Roger that, boss.

Plo Koon: Hurry! They will not follow us beyond the nebula.

Ahsoka: That one looks hungry.

Anakin: Nah, its just smiling at you.

Ahsoka: Were coming out of it!

They come out of the nebula.

Ahsoka: Lets hope your shortcut paid off.

Anakin: Were not far behind Grievous now.



REPUBLIC WARSHIPS

Admiral Yularen: The medical station reports 50% of patients evacuated.

Obi-Wan Kenobi: Thats not good enough. Theyll never be finished before the enemy arrives.

Admiral Yularen: General Skywalker still has a chance to catch Grievous.

Obi-Wan: If he does, we have to be ready.

Admiral Yularen: Yes, sir.

SHADOW SQUADRON AND FLIGHT ESCORT

Plo Koon: Shadow 2, what is the damage to your ship?

Matchstick: Just a scratch, sir.

Plo Koon: We must not take any more unnecessary risks. If we lose even a single ship, our mission is that much closer to failure.

Anakin Skywalker: Understood, Master Plo. But we didnt lose any ships, and I didnt

Random Clone: Sir, another contact!

Ahsoka Tano: I thought those things wouldnt follow us.

Random Clone: Not following, coming out of hyperspace. Its a ship. Its the Malevolence.



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

Random Droid: A squadron of Republic fighters is approaching.

General Grievous: Skywalker! Launch fighters and bring the ship around.

Random Droid: There are several medical transports surrounding the station.

Grievous: Target the transports first! I want every single ship destroyed!

Random Droid: Roger, roger.

Malevolence fires ion canon on transports and starts shooting at them.

Grievous: Ha! This is too easy!



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Ahsoka Tano: Weve got fighters coming in!

Fighters arrive, space battle starts.

Anakin Skywalker: Hold it steady. Come on, hold it steady.



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

General Grievous: Charge the ion cannon and prepare to fire!

Random Droid: But, sir, our fighters will be caught in the blast.

Grievous: Fire at my command!



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Anakin Skywalker: Get those fighters off of us!

Ahsoka Tano: Your fancy flying is making it difficult!



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

General Grievous: Fire!

Malevolence fires ion cannon



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Ahsoka Tano: Incoming!

Anakin Skywalker: Make towards the edge of the ray! Now! Give it everything youve got.

Ahsoka: Shadow 2, your speed is dropping. Whats wrong?

Matchstick: Nothing, sir. Just trying to keep it together.

Anakin: You can make it, Matchstick. Hang on!

Shadow 2 catches fire and comes down, Matchstick dies.

Random Clone: Watch out!

Shadow 2 crashes on Shadow 8.

They escape the ion cannon.

Anakin: Shadow Squadron, check in.

Ahsoka: We lost Matchstick and Tag. Shadows 6, 7 and 10 were caught in the ray.



SECRET OUTER RIM MEDICAL STATION

Random Clone: It looks as though Skywalker has failed. Hes lost almost half his ships. We should go, madam.

Nala Se: I will stay.



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

They are showered by blasts from the Malevolence.

Plo Koon: Stay on course.

Random Clone: This flak is heavy!

Anakin Skywalker: All deflectors, double front!

Ahsoka Tano: Master! We need a new plan!

Anakin: We can make it, Ahsoka. Hang in there!



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

Random Droid: Sir, the enemy fighters are closing.

General Grievous: Let them come! Prepare ion cannon. First we will destroy the medical station, then we will finish off Skywalker.

Random Droid: I have a bad feeling about this.



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Anakin Skywalker: Watch those towers, boys!

Random Clone: Were too close! Loosen up!

Random Clone gets shot at and crashes, dies.



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

Random Droid: Ion cannon ready.



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Anakin Skywalker: Theyre targeting the station. Were running out of time.

Ahsoka Tano: Master! You can make it, but everyone else is getting shot down! Master!



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

Random Droid: Station has been targeted.

General Grievous: Start the ion cannon acceleration.



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

Plo Koon: If we can do enough damage, the weapon may overload when Grievous tries to fire.

Anakin Skywalker: Shadow Squadron, new target. Were taking out the starboard ion cannon.



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

Random Droid: Ion cannon, 75% charged.

General Grievous: Hurry!



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

They launch torpedoes onto ion cannons.

Anakin Skywalker: Torpedoes away!



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

General Grievous: Fire!

Ion cannons explode, Malevolence starts fleeing the battle.



SHADOW SQUADRON AND FIGHTER ESCORT

They approach the secret Outer Rim medical station.

Anakin Skywalker: Nice job, Ahsoka!



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

General Grievous: Damage report.

Random Droid: Weve lost both primary weapons. The hyperdrive has been disabled.

Grievous: Impossible!

Random Droid: General, we are picking up three Republic warships entering the system.

Republic warships come out of hyperspace



REPUBLIC WARSHIP BRIDGE

Obi-Wan Kenobi: Anakin, do you copy?

Anakin Skywalker (Call from Space): Im here.

Obi-Wan: Congratulations. It looks like your mission was a success.

Anakin (Call): Partially, but Grievous is still alive. The battle was pretty rough on my men. Were heading for the medical station.

Obi-Wan: Well take it from here. But dont worry, well call when we need you.

Anakin (Call): Ill be waiting, Obi-Wan.

Ends call

Obi-Wan: Alright, lets finish what Anakin started. Ahead full.

Republic Warships start shooting at Malevolence



MALEVOLENCE BRIDGE

General Grievous: Full retreat! Make for Separatist space.



SECRET OUTER RIM MEDICAL STATION LANDING BAY

Plo Koon: Great job, Master Skywalker. Your leadership skills are most impressive.

Anakin Skywalker: You didnt do so bad yourself.

Ahsoka Tano: Uh, excuse me, I believe it was my suggestion to change the plan.

Anakin: Thats kind of true, Snips.

Plo Koon: From a certain point of view.

Anakin: Make sure our ships are ready. Well only have a short time before Obi-Wan calls us for support.

Random Clone: Yes, sir.

Anakin and Ahsoka enter the medical station.

Nala Se: General Skywalker, I wanted to thank you for your valiant effort today. Do not take the lives you saved lightly.

Anakin: I dont. But I also cant take the lives I lost lightly.

Nala Se: I see.

Anakin: If you will excuse me, I must prepare for the coming battle.

Anakin leaves.

Nala Se: Your master is a very curious Jedi.

Ahsoka: He is one of a kind.


Ep 5 Rookies
Narrator: As the war escalates in the Outerrim, the Jedi knights are spread thinly across the galaxy. Many new clones are rushed into service to support their Jedi generals. Unfortunately, because of the relentless demands of battle, many young clones must join the struggle before their intensive training has been completed. These clones, manning of a whole network of tracking stations, are all that stands between the Republic and invasion.
Sentry: This is the deck officer checking in. Nothing going on. As usual.
Woman: You're listening to the grand army of the Republic broadcast. The voice of the Outerrim. This next one goes out to the med-jumpers of the 224th. Smugging it out on Membom. Keep your heads down and your seals tight, boys.
Hevy: Yes! Who's next? Fives?
Fives: Shouldn't you watching your scopes, Hevy?
Hevy: Let's take a look. Well, you know? All clear. Just like the last thousand times I looked at it.
Echo: Personally, I like that it's so quiet out here. I can catch up on the rig manuals.
Hevy: Echo, what is wrong with you? We should be out on the front lines, blasting droids.
Cutup: Leave him alone. They kept him in his growh jar too long.
Hevy: Yeah. You may not realize it yet, Fives, but you landed on the most boring post in the Outerrim.
Droidbait: And one of the most important.
Cutup: Attention! Sergeant on deck!
Sergeant O'Niner: At ease! Even though you're all new here, I shouldn't have to remind you that this quadrant is key to the Outerrim. If the droids get past this station, they can surprise-attack the facilities where we were born on our home world of Kamino. There are some officers on the way, so I want everything squared away for inspection. Understood?
Clone Troopers: Sir, yes, sir!
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Still here, Anakin.
Anakin Skywalker: When was the last time you slept? I'll sleep after we find general Grievous. Clone intelligence spotted him in the Balmorra system. That was weeks ago. Since then, he vanished.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Well, unlike you, maybe he's getting some much-need rest.
Wullf Yularen: Excuse me, general. Incoming transmission from commander Cody.
Commander Cody (Hologram): General Kenobi, General Skywalker.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Cody. How goes the inspections?
Commander Cody (Hologram): The tracking station in Pastil is fully operational. Captain Rex and I are proceeding to the outpost in the Rishi system.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Good. Report back once you've arrived.
Commander Cody (Hologram): Copy that. Cody out. (Calls off)
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Good man, that Cody. Don't worry, Anakin. If general Grievous comes anywhere near this quadrant, we'll know about it.
Sentry: Sir, incoming meteor shower.
Sergeant O'Niner: Raise the shield.
Cutup: You wanted excitement, Hevy.
Echo: Right. Meteor shower.
Clone Trooper: What the--
Commando Droid: Get these doors open.
Commando Droids: Roger, roger.
Sergeant O'Niner: CT-327, report in. Sentry, do you copy?
Clone Trooper: Interference from the meteors?
Hevy: I don't see him down there, sarge. You two, go find him.
Clone Trooper: Droids!
Sergeant O'Niner: Sound the alarm!
Hevy: They've disabled the beacon.
Sergeant O'Niner: Get a message to the fleet! We have to warn--
Hevy: Sarge!
Echo: That should slow those buckets down.
Hevy: This way. Hurry!
Cutup: No, we can--
Hevy: There's too many.
Commando Droid (Hologram): The outpost is secure, general. We shut down the alarm and turned on the all-clear signal.
General Grievous: Excellent. Keep that signal alive. I don't want the Republic to find out we're coming.
Battle Droid: General, our spy on Kamino is making contact.
Asajj Ventress (Hologram): All the preparations for your invasion are in order.
General Grievous: Good. Our fleet is approaching the system. We are almost at the rendezvous point.
Asajj Ventress: Very good, my Lord. I will await your arrival.
General Grievous: The destruction of Kamino will stop their production of clones for good.
Commander Cody: Rishi outpost, this is commander Cody. Do you copy? Rishi outpost, please respond.
Commando Droid: Open, open Open comlink channel.
Commander Cody: Rishi outpost, come in. Rishi outpost, come in.
Sergeant O'Niner: Sorry, commander. We're, experiencing technical difficulties.
Commander Cody: This is the inspection team.
Sergeant O'Niner: Inspection? Negative, negative. We, do not require an inspection. Everything is fine here. Thank you.
Commander Cody: We'll be the judge of that. Prepare for our arrival.
Sergeant O'Niner: Roger, roger.
Captain Rex: Something's not right here.
Commander Cody: Well, good luck. I'm putting you in charge of this one.
Fives: What do we do without the sarge?
Sentry: The reg manual says the next--
Hevy: Wait. Wait. Did you hear that?
Echo: Yeah, what is that? It doesn't sound like droids.
Hevy: Don't forget about those giant eels.
Echo: I've never seen-- Cutup! What the hell was that?
Sentry: That was an eel. Now, that's why we have the regulation not to go outside.
Echo: Let's move before it comes back.
Sentry: Poor Cutup.
Echo: Look! It's commander Cody. It's the inspection team.
Commander Cody: This is not good. I don't see the deck officer anywhere.
Captain Rex: These boys are sloppy. There should always be an officer on duty.
Echo: We have to warn them. Get on the comlink.
Captain Rex: I have a bad feeling about this.
Sergeant O'Niner: Welcome to Rishi, Commander. As you can see, the outpost is operating at peak efficiency. Thank you for visiting, and have a safe trip back.
Commander Cody: We need to inspect the base just the same.
Sergeant O'Niner: There is no need. Everything is fine and fully operational.
Sentry: It's no good. Their comlinks are on a different scramble set.
Hevy: I'll signal them with this flare.
Captain Rex: Take us to the Sergeant in command.
Sergeant O'Niner: Roger, roger.
Commander Cody: A droid attack flare? Rex! What the heck are you doing?
Captain Rex: Relax. Just as I thought. Looks like one of those new commando droids.
Commander Cody: That flare must have come from the survivors.
Captain Rex: Ambush!
Commander Cody: Those clankers have tough armor.
Captain Rex: We're cut off. Off the platform!
Commander Cody: Copy that.
Commando Droid: No sign of them. They must have been pulverized. Resume defensive posts.
Captain Rex: Well, that sure complicates things, commander. No worse than that time on Tibrin. We had Jedi with us on Tibrin.
Commander Cody: They helped.
Captain Rex: Hands above your head. Take your sun bonnets off.
Commander Cody: Sir?
Captain Rex: Take 'em off! Now!
Echo: Nice shot.
Captain Rex: The name's Rex. But you'll call me Captain or sir.
Clone Troopers: Sir, yes, sir!
Commander Cody: I'm Commander Cody, your new boss.
Fives: My designation is trooper 27-5555, sir.
Hevy: We call him Fives. I'm Hevy. This is Echo.
Commander Cody: Where's your Sergeant?
Echo: Dead, sir. We're all that's left.
Captain Rex: Looks like we got ourselves a batch of shinies, Commander.
Echo: Shinies, sir?
Captain Rex: That's right. Your armor, it's shiny and new, just like you.
Sentry: Sir, me and my batchers are trained and ready. We'll take back our post, shiny or not.
Captain Rex: There's hope for you yet, rookie.
Wullf Yularen: Commander Cody, do you copy? Captain Rex, please respond.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: They should have checked in from the Rishi station hours ago. It appears your captain follows orders as well as you do.
Anakin Skywalker: Perhaps Cody is boring Rex with standard procedures and protocol.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: We need to work on our own boring procedures and figure out a strategy to find Grievous.
Anakin Skywalker: Right. Admiral, let me know if you hear from Rex.
Captain Rex: Look sharp, rookies. As long as those tweezers occupy this post, our home planet of Kamino is at risk.
Sentry: But there's so many of them.
Captain Rex: Doesn't matter, kid. We have to retake this base, so we will retake this base.
Commander Cody: How do you propose we get through those blast doors, Rex, old boy?
Captain Rex: I have a few ideas.
Comamndo Droid: What is that? Unit 2-6, is that you?
Captain Rex: Roger, roger.
Commando Droid: You sound strange. Is something wrong with your vocabulator?
Captain Rex: Roger, roger.
Commando Droid: Take off your helmet. Let me see your faceplate.
Captain Rex: Roger, roger.
Commander Cody: This is never gonna work.
Commando Droid: Clones!
Captain Rex: Roger, roger. Right. Let's move.
Echo: Permission to take point, sir?
Captain Rex: I'm always first, kid.
Echo: Fives!
Commander Cody: He's okay. Focus on the battle.
Echo: I got one!
Sentry: Sorry, Echo. I jumped that one.
Echo: Like hell you did.
Commander Cody: Get to the window. It looks like we have more visitors.
Echo: It looks like a Separatist fleet.
Commander Cody: That's why they commandeered the outpost. They're mounting a full-scale invasion.
Captain Rex: We have to warn command.
Battle Droid: The Republic base is still transmitting the all-clear signal, but for some reason, our commando droids are not responding.
General Grievous: That base cannot be allowed to alert the Jedi that we're coming. Send down reinforcements to investigate.
Hevy: Those clankers sabotaged our transmitter, and hard-wired the all-clear signal. It'll take time to repair.
Captain Rex: We don't have time. Look.
Fives: Well, buddy, you always said you wanted to be on the front lines.
Hevy: We can't protect the outpost long against that army of clankers.
Captain Rex: Then we'll destroy the outpost instead.
Hevy: But, sir, our mission is to defend this facility at all costs.
Captain Rex: We have to warn the Republic about the invasion. They'll take notice when the all-clear signal stops.
Fives: That's right. When they stop receiving our beacon, they'll get the message something's wrong.
Captain Rex: We'll need every thermal detonator in the inventory.
Fives: It'll take more than a few detonators to destroy this outpost.
Echo: We can use the LT. This moon freezes for over half the year. We use Liquid Tibanna as fuel to heat the base.
Fives: Liquid Tibanna: highly explosive.
Captain Rex: Good. Bring the tanks here and prime the detonators. All right, listen up. There's only one target of interest in this sector: Kamino. It's the closest thing we clones have to a home. Today we fight for more than the Republic. Today we fight for all our brothers back home. Understood?
Clone Troopers: Sir, yes, sir!
Hevy: I think we can even the odds a bit, Commander, especially since they don't know we're here. This one here is mine. Big gun doesn't make a big man.
Battle Droid: Reinforcements reporting. Open up.
Hevy: Didn't say please.
Battle Droid: Clones! Get 'em!
Hevy: We could use a Jedi about now.
Wullf Yularen: Captain Rex, come in. Commander Cody, are you there? General, there's still no response.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: How about the all-clear signal? Is the base still transmitting?
Wullf Yularen: Yes, sir.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: If something were wrong, Cody would contact us.
General Grevious: What is the status of the base?
Battle Droid: We've run into some difficulties. There seem to be a few clones left, sir.
General Grevious: Then wipe them out. We can't let a few puny clones stop us.
Commander Cody: Fall back to the op center. Move! Rex, time's wasting.
Captain Rex: Almost ready. The handset isn't linked up with the detonator. Hevy.
Hevy: Yes, sir.
Captain Rex: This detonator isn't working.
Hevy: I'll take care of it. It'll be fixed in no time. You guys get out of here.
Captain Rex: Just make it fast. Those droids are getting close.
Hevy: There. That should fix it. This isn't good. There's got to be another way.
Battle Droid: The base is ours again, sir. The clones are fleeing.
Battle Droid Commander: Cowards. Secure the area.
Captain Rex: Hevy, hit the-- Where's Hevy?
Hevy: I'm on it, sir.
Captain Rex: Hevy, get out of there.
Hevy: The remote isn't working. I have to detonate it manually.
Battle Droid: Hold on there. Blast him!
Captain Rex: Hevy.
Commander Cody: We've got to get up there. Back to the maintenance pipe.
Captain Rex: Let's move.
Hevy: It's no use. I know what I have to do.
Captain Rex: I don't like your tone, rookie. Soldier, come in. Are you there? Soldier, come in! Respond!
Commander Cody: Hevy, come in. Come in, Hevy!
Battle Droid: Do we take prisoners?
Hevy: I don't.
Echo: Hevy always did hate that place.
Wullf Yularen: The all-clear signal has been disabled? The Rishi base has stopped transmitting.
Anakin Skywalker: Grievous.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Sound the invasion alarm. Let's get the fleet under way.
General Grievous: I didn't tell them to blow up the station.
Battle Droid: But isn't it good that the base is destroyed?
General Grievous: Idiot! The Republic fleet. We're outgunned. Get us out of here.
Fives: We've got those tinnies on the run. Thanks to Hevy. Gunships.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: On behalf of the Republic, we thank you for your valiant service, and we honor your comrade's sacrifice.
Anakin Skywalker: Your new unit is lucky to have you. I'd be proud to fight beside you anytime, anywhere.
Captain Rex: Congratulations. You're not shinies anymore.
Echo: With all due respect, sir, we failed our mission. We don't deserve this honor.
Commander Cody: No, if it weren't for you, the Republic wouldn't have learned of the Separatists' invasion until it was too late.
Captain Rex: You showed me something today. You're exactly the kind of men I need in the 501st.
Echo and Fives: Sir, yes, sir!
[End of Rookies]


Ep 6 - Rookies

Narrator: As the war escalates in the Outerrim, the Jedi knights are spread thinly across the galaxy. Many new clones are rushed into service to support their Jedi generals. Unfortunately, because of the relentless demands of battle, many young clones must join the struggle before their intensive training has been completed. These clones, manning of a whole network of tracking stations, are all that stands between the Republic and invasion.
Sentry: This is the deck officer checking in. Nothing going on. As usual.
Woman: You're listening to the grand army of the Republic broadcast. The voice of the Outerrim. This next one goes out to the med-jumpers of the 224th. Smugging it out on Membom. Keep your heads down and your seals tight, boys.
Hevy: Yes! Who's next? Fives?
Fives: Shouldn't you watching your scopes, Hevy?
Hevy: Let's take a look. Well, you know? All clear. Just like the last thousand times I looked at it.
Echo: Personally, I like that it's so quiet out here. I can catch up on the rig manuals.
Hevy: Echo, what is wrong with you? We should be out on the front lines, blasting droids.
Cutup: Leave him alone. They kept him in his growh jar too long.
Hevy: Yeah. You may not realize it yet, Fives, but you landed on the most boring post in the Outerrim.
Droidbait: And one of the most important.
Cutup: Attention! Sergeant on deck!
Sergeant O'Niner: At ease! Even though you're all new here, I shouldn't have to remind you that this quadrant is key to the Outerrim. If the droids get past this station, they can surprise-attack the facilities where we were born on our home world of Kamino. There are some officers on the way, so I want everything squared away for inspection. Understood?
Clone Troopers: Sir, yes, sir!
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Still here, Anakin.
Anakin Skywalker: When was the last time you slept? I'll sleep after we find general Grievous. Clone intelligence spotted him in the Balmorra system. That was weeks ago. Since then, he vanished.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Well, unlike you, maybe he's getting some much-need rest.
Wullf Yularen: Excuse me, general. Incoming transmission from commander Cody.
Commander Cody (Hologram): General Kenobi, General Skywalker.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Cody. How goes the inspections?
Commander Cody (Hologram): The tracking station in Pastil is fully operational. Captain Rex and I are proceeding to the outpost in the Rishi system.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Good. Report back once you've arrived.
Commander Cody (Hologram): Copy that. Cody out. (Calls off)
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Good man, that Cody. Don't worry, Anakin. If general Grievous comes anywhere near this quadrant, we'll know about it.
Sentry: Sir, incoming meteor shower.
Sergeant O'Niner: Raise the shield.
Cutup: You wanted excitement, Hevy.
Echo: Right. Meteor shower.
Clone Trooper: What the--
Commando Droid: Get these doors open.
Commando Droids: Roger, roger.
Sergeant O'Niner: CT-327, report in. Sentry, do you copy?
Clone Trooper: Interference from the meteors?
Hevy: I don't see him down there, sarge. You two, go find him.
Clone Trooper: Droids!
Sergeant O'Niner: Sound the alarm!
Hevy: They've disabled the beacon.
Sergeant O'Niner: Get a message to the fleet! We have to warn--
Hevy: Sarge!
Echo: That should slow those buckets down.
Hevy: This way. Hurry!
Cutup: No, we can--
Hevy: There's too many.
Commando Droid (Hologram): The outpost is secure, general. We shut down the alarm and turned on the all-clear signal.
General Grievous: Excellent. Keep that signal alive. I don't want the Republic to find out we're coming.
Battle Droid: General, our spy on Kamino is making contact.
Asajj Ventress (Hologram): All the preparations for your invasion are in order.
General Grievous: Good. Our fleet is approaching the system. We are almost at the rendezvous point.
Asajj Ventress: Very good, my Lord. I will await your arrival.
General Grievous: The destruction of Kamino will stop their production of clones for good.
Commander Cody: Rishi outpost, this is commander Cody. Do you copy? Rishi outpost, please respond.
Commando Droid: Open, open Open comlink channel.
Commander Cody: Rishi outpost, come in. Rishi outpost, come in.
Sergeant O'Niner: Sorry, commander. We're, experiencing technical difficulties.
Commander Cody: This is the inspection team.
Sergeant O'Niner: Inspection? Negative, negative. We, do not require an inspection. Everything is fine here. Thank you.
Commander Cody: We'll be the judge of that. Prepare for our arrival.
Sergeant O'Niner: Roger, roger.
Captain Rex: Something's not right here.
Commander Cody: Well, good luck. I'm putting you in charge of this one.
Fives: What do we do without the sarge?
Sentry: The reg manual says the next--
Hevy: Wait. Wait. Did you hear that?
Echo: Yeah, what is that? It doesn't sound like droids.
Hevy: Don't forget about those giant eels.
Echo: I've never seen-- Cutup! What the hell was that?
Sentry: That was an eel. Now, that's why we have the regulation not to go outside.
Echo: Let's move before it comes back.
Sentry: Poor Cutup.
Echo: Look! It's commander Cody. It's the inspection team.
Commander Cody: This is not good. I don't see the deck officer anywhere.
Captain Rex: These boys are sloppy. There should always be an officer on duty.
Echo: We have to warn them. Get on the comlink.
Captain Rex: I have a bad feeling about this.
Sergeant O'Niner: Welcome to Rishi, Commander. As you can see, the outpost is operating at peak efficiency. Thank you for visiting, and have a safe trip back.
Commander Cody: We need to inspect the base just the same.
Sergeant O'Niner: There is no need. Everything is fine and fully operational.
Sentry: It's no good. Their comlinks are on a different scramble set.
Hevy: I'll signal them with this flare.
Captain Rex: Take us to the Sergeant in command.
Sergeant O'Niner: Roger, roger.
Commander Cody: A droid attack flare? Rex! What the heck are you doing?
Captain Rex: Relax. Just as I thought. Looks like one of those new commando droids.
Commander Cody: That flare must have come from the survivors.
Captain Rex: Ambush!
Commander Cody: Those clankers have tough armor.
Captain Rex: We're cut off. Off the platform!
Commander Cody: Copy that.
Commando Droid: No sign of them. They must have been pulverized. Resume defensive posts.
Captain Rex: Well, that sure complicates things, commander. No worse than that time on Tibrin. We had Jedi with us on Tibrin.
Commander Cody: They helped.
Captain Rex: Hands above your head. Take your sun bonnets off.
Commander Cody: Sir?
Captain Rex: Take 'em off! Now!
Echo: Nice shot.
Captain Rex: The name's Rex. But you'll call me Captain or sir.
Clone Troopers: Sir, yes, sir!
Commander Cody: I'm Commander Cody, your new boss.
Fives: My designation is trooper 27-5555, sir.
Hevy: We call him Fives. I'm Hevy. This is Echo.
Commander Cody: Where's your Sergeant?
Echo: Dead, sir. We're all that's left.
Captain Rex: Looks like we got ourselves a batch of shinies, Commander.
Echo: Shinies, sir?
Captain Rex: That's right. Your armor, it's shiny and new, just like you.
Sentry: Sir, me and my batchers are trained and ready. We'll take back our post, shiny or not.
Captain Rex: There's hope for you yet, rookie.
Wullf Yularen: Commander Cody, do you copy? Captain Rex, please respond.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: They should have checked in from the Rishi station hours ago. It appears your captain follows orders as well as you do.
Anakin Skywalker: Perhaps Cody is boring Rex with standard procedures and protocol.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: We need to work on our own boring procedures and figure out a strategy to find Grievous.
Anakin Skywalker: Right. Admiral, let me know if you hear from Rex.
Captain Rex: Look sharp, rookies. As long as those tweezers occupy this post, our home planet of Kamino is at risk.
Sentry: But there's so many of them.
Captain Rex: Doesn't matter, kid. We have to retake this base, so we will retake this base.
Commander Cody: How do you propose we get through those blast doors, Rex, old boy?
Captain Rex: I have a few ideas.
Comamndo Droid: What is that? Unit 2-6, is that you?
Captain Rex: Roger, roger.
Commando Droid: You sound strange. Is something wrong with your vocabulator?
Captain Rex: Roger, roger.
Commando Droid: Take off your helmet. Let me see your faceplate.
Captain Rex: Roger, roger.
Commander Cody: This is never gonna work.
Commando Droid: Clones!
Captain Rex: Roger, roger. Right. Let's move.
Echo: Permission to take point, sir?
Captain Rex: I'm always first, kid.
Echo: Fives!
Commander Cody: He's okay. Focus on the battle.
Echo: I got one!
Sentry: Sorry, Echo. I jumped that one.
Echo: Like hell you did.
Commander Cody: Get to the window. It looks like we have more visitors.
Echo: It looks like a Separatist fleet.
Commander Cody: That's why they commandeered the outpost. They're mounting a full-scale invasion.
Captain Rex: We have to warn command.
Battle Droid: The Republic base is still transmitting the all-clear signal, but for some reason, our commando droids are not responding.
General Grievous: That base cannot be allowed to alert the Jedi that we're coming. Send down reinforcements to investigate.
Hevy: Those clankers sabotaged our transmitter, and hard-wired the all-clear signal. It'll take time to repair.
Captain Rex: We don't have time. Look.
Fives: Well, buddy, you always said you wanted to be on the front lines.
Hevy: We can't protect the outpost long against that army of clankers.
Captain Rex: Then we'll destroy the outpost instead.
Hevy: But, sir, our mission is to defend this facility at all costs.
Captain Rex: We have to warn the Republic about the invasion. They'll take notice when the all-clear signal stops.
Fives: That's right. When they stop receiving our beacon, they'll get the message something's wrong.
Captain Rex: We'll need every thermal detonator in the inventory.
Fives: It'll take more than a few detonators to destroy this outpost.
Echo: We can use the LT. This moon freezes for over half the year. We use Liquid Tibanna as fuel to heat the base.
Fives: Liquid Tibanna: highly explosive.
Captain Rex: Good. Bring the tanks here and prime the detonators. All right, listen up. There's only one target of interest in this sector: Kamino. It's the closest thing we clones have to a home. Today we fight for more than the Republic. Today we fight for all our brothers back home. Understood?
Clone Troopers: Sir, yes, sir!
Hevy: I think we can even the odds a bit, Commander, especially since they don't know we're here. This one here is mine. Big gun doesn't make a big man.
Battle Droid: Reinforcements reporting. Open up.
Hevy: Didn't say please.
Battle Droid: Clones! Get 'em!
Hevy: We could use a Jedi about now.
Wullf Yularen: Captain Rex, come in. Commander Cody, are you there? General, there's still no response.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: How about the all-clear signal? Is the base still transmitting?
Wullf Yularen: Yes, sir.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: If something were wrong, Cody would contact us.
General Grevious: What is the status of the base?
Battle Droid: We've run into some difficulties. There seem to be a few clones left, sir.
General Grevious: Then wipe them out. We can't let a few puny clones stop us.
Commander Cody: Fall back to the op center. Move! Rex, time's wasting.
Captain Rex: Almost ready. The handset isn't linked up with the detonator. Hevy.
Hevy: Yes, sir.
Captain Rex: This detonator isn't working.
Hevy: I'll take care of it. It'll be fixed in no time. You guys get out of here.
Captain Rex: Just make it fast. Those droids are getting close.
Hevy: There. That should fix it. This isn't good. There's got to be another way.
Battle Droid: The base is ours again, sir. The clones are fleeing.
Battle Droid Commander: Cowards. Secure the area.
Captain Rex: Hevy, hit the-- Where's Hevy?
Hevy: I'm on it, sir.
Captain Rex: Hevy, get out of there.
Hevy: The remote isn't working. I have to detonate it manually.
Battle Droid: Hold on there. Blast him!
Captain Rex: Hevy.
Commander Cody: We've got to get up there. Back to the maintenance pipe.
Captain Rex: Let's move.
Hevy: It's no use. I know what I have to do.
Captain Rex: I don't like your tone, rookie. Soldier, come in. Are you there? Soldier, come in! Respond!
Commander Cody: Hevy, come in. Come in, Hevy!
Battle Droid: Do we take prisoners?
Hevy: I don't.
Echo: Hevy always did hate that place.
Wullf Yularen: The all-clear signal has been disabled? The Rishi base has stopped transmitting.
Anakin Skywalker: Grievous.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Sound the invasion alarm. Let's get the fleet under way.
General Grievous: I didn't tell them to blow up the station.
Battle Droid: But isn't it good that the base is destroyed?
General Grievous: Idiot! The Republic fleet. We're outgunned. Get us out of here.
Fives: We've got those tinnies on the run. Thanks to Hevy. Gunships.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: On behalf of the Republic, we thank you for your valiant service, and we honor your comrade's sacrifice.
Anakin Skywalker: Your new unit is lucky to have you. I'd be proud to fight beside you anytime, anywhere.
Captain Rex: Congratulations. You're not shinies anymore.
Echo: With all due respect, sir, we failed our mission. We don't deserve this honor.
Commander Cody: No, if it weren't for you, the Republic wouldn't have learned of the Separatists' invasion until it was too late.
Captain Rex: You showed me something today. You're exactly the kind of men I need in the 501st.
Echo and Fives: Sir, yes, sir!
[End of Rookies]


Ep 7 - Duel of the Droids

Narrator: You hold onto friends by keeping your heart a little softer than your head. Missing in action! Anakin Skywalkers heroic droid navigator R2-D2 was lost in battle. When a desperate search fails to locate R2, Anakin is forced to take on a new navigator, R3-S6. Now the Jedi embark on a dangerous new mission to find a secret enemy listening post. Meanwhile, R2-D2 has fallen into the hands of a vile droid smuggler and is on his way to General Grievous who will surely plunder the Republics secrets hidden within him.



GHA NACKTS SHIP

Gha Nackt: I am entering your orbit now, General. I will be at your station shortly. And, General

General Grievous (Hologram): What is it, Gha Nackt?

Gha Nackt: I prefer to get my reward in cash.

Grievous grunts, Gha Nackt ends call.



TWILIGHT SHIP

Captain Rex: Weve searched their supply grids, sir. Theres nothing to indicate the presence of an enemy outpost.



GHA NACKTS SHIP

R2-D2 alters with Gha Nackts ship and manages to send a transmission to the Twilight.

Gha Nackt: Huh?



TWILIGHT SHIP

Ahsoka Tano: Master, Im receiving a strange transmission. I cant seem to make it out, though. Boost the volume, Goldie.

R3-S6 lowers the volume.

Ahsoka: No, youre losing it.

R2-D2s voice comes from the signal.

Anakin Skywalker: Thats R2.

Ahsoka: Uh, that doesnt sound like R2.

Anakin. Its him. I could never forget that voice. Trace it, Rex.

Rex: Sir.



GHA NACKTS SHIP

Gha Nack tries stopping the signal.

Gha Nackt: What is going on here?

He discovers R2-D2s actions.

Gha Nackt: You sneaky little scrap pile. 

He electrocutes R2-D2.

Gha Nackt: Youd better be worth all this trouble.



TWILIGHT SHIP

Ahsoka Tano: Master, our orders were to find the Separatist listening post.

Anakin Skywalker: Perhaps R2 is at the listening post. Did you consider that?

Captain Rex: We have a lock on the droids location, sir.

Anakin: Prepare to jump to those coordinates.

Random Clone: Yes, sir.

Anakin: Hold on, R2, old buddy.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

Gha Nackt arrives and calls General Grievous.

General Grievous: What is it, Gha Nackt?

Gha Nackt: Ive arrived. Could you lower your shields?

Gha Nackt lands, takes R2-D2 and meets Grievous.

Gha Nackt: Keep moving, grease spot.

Grievous: Aah.

Gha Nackt: This is the droid those Jedi came looking for, General.

Grievous: What secrets do you carry, my little friend?

R2-D2 expresses his contempt towards Grievous.

Grievous: So defiant. No need for fear. Were all droids here. Rip this little rat apart, and find out everything he knows. 

Gha Nackt: Right away, General.



TWILIGHT SHIP

Captain Rex: Sir, the last transmission came from that moons upper atmosphere, directly ahead.

Anakin Skywalker: Thats a Separatist battle sphere.

Rex: Im picking up a lot of encrypted chatter.

Anakin: Contact Obi-Wan. Stubby, scramble secret code set 1477. I dont want that station to pick this up.

Obi-Wan Kenobi enters call via hologram.

Obi-Wan Kenobi (Hologram): Anakin?

Anakin: Master, I believe weve found your Separatist listening post.

Obi-Wan (Hologram): Excellent work. Back off and wait. Ill send two mainline cruisers to help you destroy it.

Ahsoka Tano: But R2

Anakin: We believe my droid, R2, is on board. Hes the one that led us here.

Obi-Wan (Hologram): Hmmm, this complicates things. You must sneak aboard that station and destroy it before they crack R2s memory banks. I know youre fond of that droid, but hes fallen into enemy hands.

Anakin: I could rescue R2.

Obi-Wan (Hologram): No, this is not a rescue mission.

Obi-Wan ends call.

Anakin: Keep jamming their scanners. If they spot us, were dead.



TWILIGHT SHIP DROP OFF

Captain Rex sees R3-S6 with them.

Captain Rex: Were bringing the droid?

Ahsoka Tano: Well need Goldie to open secured hatches and access the stations computer for us. Oh, and, Rex you get to carry him.

Rex: Ah, thats just great.

Ahsoka: Follow me, boys!

They parachute themselves out of the ship.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

Random Droid: Take this upstairs, and be sure not to drop it.

Random Droid falls.

Random Droid: Whoa! Ow.

Random Droid: Those 631s are not the brightest lights on the ship.

Ahsoka Tano, Anakin Skywalker and Gold Squadron sneak into the Listening Post right behind them.



GOLD SQUADRON

They land on the Listening Post.

Captain Rex: Next time, youre lugging this astromech around.

Other Clones laugh. Anakin Skywalker cuts a hole in the ground with his lightsaber and they get in.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

Random Droid: All this moisture is corroding my servo-motors.

Random Droid: Go up to level eight. Get your head adjusted It feels great.

Random Droid: Thatll feel gr-

Random Clone destroys the Random Droid from behind.

Random Droid: What the?

Random Droid gets shot at by Random Clone. Gold Squadron advance towards a closed door.

Ahsoka Tano: All right, stubby. Get to work.

R3-S6 projects a hologram of the Listening Post.

Captain Rex: We are here. The reactors are 30 levels below us, there.

Anakin Skywalker: Ahsoka, you take the squad and blow up those reactors. Gravity will do the rest. Well meet in the landing bay.

Ahsoka: Where are you going?

Anakin: Im just going to have a little look around.

Ahsoka: I hope you find R2 in one piece.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

Gha Nackt manages to crack open R2-D2s memory. R2-D2 projects secret Republic information.

Gha Nackt: This is This! General Grievous!

General Grievous: What is it?

Gha Nackt: It appears this droids mission memory has never been erased. It contains every Republic formation and strategy they have.

Grievous: Good work. You certainly earned your fee this time.

Gha Nackt: More than my fee. This droid is worth more, I get paid more. Now, I suggest-

Grievous kills Gha Nackt with one of his lightsabers.

Grievous: There is your bonus.

Grievous receives a call from R3-S6.

Grievous: Report, agent R3. 

R3-S6 reveals the Jedi are here.

Grievous: The Jedi are here? Delay them until I arrive.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST CORRIDORS

Ahsoka Tano sees R3-S6 is missing.

Ahsoka Tano: Goldie, where are you?

R3-S6 comes back to Ahsoka.

Ahsoka: What are you doing back here? Come on.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

General Grievous: Now we will transfer all your secrets to me.

R2-D2 expresses his fear.

Grievous: Dont worry. I wont let anything happen to you.

MagnaGuards arrive.

Grievous: Republic troops have infiltrated the base. Keep this droid secure. I will deal with the Jedi myself.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST CORRIDORS

Captain Rex: We found the reactor room, sir. The alarm triggered another security door ray-shielded

Ahsoka Tano: This could take a while to bypass.

Rex: Good luck with that.

Ahsoka: Go ahead, Goldie. Make me proud.

Rex: Oh, thisll be good.

Random Clone: Those droids are getting close, sir.

Rex: Do you think R3s going to open up that door any time soon?

Ahsoka: Hes working on it. Patience, Captain.

Rex: I can always hot-wire it, sir.

Ahsoka: Hurry up, Goldie.

Rex: I think weve run out of time

Random Droid: Blastem

Droids start shooting, a battle begins. R3-S6 closes the door.

Ahsoka: Rex, droid poppers, now!

Rex: Droid poppers!

Rex throws droid poppers that de-activate the droids. 'General Grievous arrives.

General Grievous: Take the captured R2 unit to my ship. They sent a child to destroy my station? The Republic must be running out of Jedi.

Grievous activates his lightsaber.

Ahsoka: You must be General Grievous. Hes just another tinny, boys. Lets scrap him like the rest.

A duel starts between Ahsoka and Grievous, he quickly defeats her. Grievous starts fighting Gold Squadron and quickly defeats them too. Ahsoka gets up, and stops him right before hes about to kill Rex.

Ahsoka: Sorry to interrupt your playtime, grumpy, but wouldnt you prefer a challenge?

Grievous: That wouldnt be you.

Grievous activates another lightsaber, and the duel between them starts again. R3-S6 opens a door and escapes, Ahsoka follows him.

Grievous: All units, stay on high alert. Watch out for a second Jedi loose in the station.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

Anakin Skywalker finds R2-D2

Anakin Skywalker: R2!

He engages into a fight with the droids securing R2-D2.

Anakin: Hang on, R2!

The droids escape with R2-D2.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST CORRIDORS

General Grievous: Where is the fight that you promised me, youngling?

Ahsoka Tano is hiding. Captain Rex contacts her.

Captain Rex (Call): Ahsoka, its me, Rex. Should we abort the mission?

Ahsoka Tano: No, complete the mission. Set the charges and rendezvous at the landing bay.

Rex (Call): But, sir

Ahsoka: Thats an order, Rex. Ill keep the general busy.

(Rex to Gold Squadron: Ahsoka out. Shes distracting Grievous. Come on. We still got a job to do.)

Grievous: Come here, child. Im looking for you. So far, you have failed to impress me.

Ahsoka: Goldie, over here.

R3-S6 turns his lights on.

Ahsoka: Goldie, no!

Grievous finds Ahsoka.

Rex (Call): Ahsoka, were in the reactor-

Grievous destroys the communicator.

Grievous: Your friends wont help you. Youre stuck with me.

Ahsoka escapes, once again.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

Anakin Skywalker: You have something that belongs to me.

Him and the MagnaGuards fight, he destroys them, rescuing R2-D2, who also saves him from a surviving MagnaGuard.

Anakin: Thanks, R2. 

R2-D2 expresses his happiness to see him again.

Anakin: Its great to see you too, buddy. You dont look so good. You okay?

Anakin calls Gold Squadron.

Anakin: Rex? Rex, can you hear me? R3? R3, is that you? Ive got R2. Ill meet you back at the landing bay.

Anakin ends the call. R2-D2 asks about R3-S6.

Anakin: R3? Uh, yeah, I had to get a replacement droid.

R2-D2 expresses his jealousy.

Anakin: Look, sorry, R2. It was Obi-Wans idea. Look well talk about this later.

Anakin contacts Twilight Ship.

Anakin: Twilight, this is Skywalker. Rendezvous at the south landing bay immediately for evacuation.

Random Clone (Call from Twilight): Acknowledged, General. Im on my way.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

General Grievous: R3, what have you to report?

Ahsoka Tano understands R3-S6 has been a Separatist all along.

Ahsoka Tano: That stubby little backstabber.

R3-S6 tells Grievous Skywalker has got R2-D2 with him.

Grievous: So Skywalker has come for his R2 unit. Go and make certain they do not escape.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST SOUTH LANDING BAY

The Twilight lands.

Anakin Skywalker: Great, theres the Twilight. Now wheres everyone else?

Random Clone: Sir.

R3-S6 arrives.

Anakin: Hey, Stubby, wheres Ahsoka?

Captain Rex and Gold Squadron arrive.

Captain Rex: General Skywalker. Explosives are in place, sir. Objective completed.

Anakin: Where is Ahsoka?

Rex: She engaged General Grievous

Anakin is shocked and fears the worst.

Anakin: Alone?

Rex: She distracted him while we completed the mission. It was on her orders, sir. The droid was with her.

Anakin: Weve got to find her.

Rex: I can take you to her, sir.

R3-S6 locks all exits.

Anakin: What is the matter with you? Are you trying to get us killed?

A lot of droids are activated by R3-S6.

Rex: Ive got a bad feeling about this, sir.

Anakin: That double-crossing droid is a spy.

They engage into a fight with the numerous droids.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST

General Grievous catches Ahsoka Tano by the throat, and takes her lightsaber.

General Grievous: Another lightsaber to add to my collection. My spy droid, R3, has trapped your precious master. When Im finished with you, hes next.

Ahsoka Tano: Youre wrong. Hes gone by now, and hes going to blow up your precious spy station.

Grievous: Not this time.



SEPARATIST SECRET LISTENING POST SOUTH LANDING BAY

Anakin Skywalker: Captain, trigger the explosives.

Captain Rex: But, sir, were still in the station.

Anakin: You just let me worry about the details.

Rex: Sir, yes, sir.

Rex triggers the explosives. Ahsoka Tano, on her side, uses the detonation to escape Grievous and join Gold Squadron. Grievous flees the Listening Post on his ship.

Anakin: R2, I need you to get the hangar door open. See if there are any controls on the outer platform.

Ahsoka joins the fight, and R3-S6 starts a duel with R2-D2.

Ahsoka Tano: So, what did I miss?

Anakin: Oh, the usual. It was foolish of you to take on Grievous by yourself.

Ahsoka: Well, I was leading the mission, and it seemed like a good idea at the time.

Anakin: Did he tell you your stubby little gold droid pal works for him?

Ahsoka: He might have mentioned it. I guess we were all fooled.

Rex: General Skywalker, there are fuel cells over here.

Anakin: Get ready, Rex.

R2-D2 manages to open the exit door.

Ahsoka: R2 did it.

Anakin: Of course he did it. Now lets get out of here

They escape onboard the Twilight. Anakin sees R2-D2 is missing.

Anakin: R2, where are you?

Anakin takes his fighter and goes saving R2-D2, who is still fighting R3-S6.

Random Clone: General Skywalker has gotten into his fighter.

Rex: Wheres he going?

Ahsoka: Hes going after R2.

Anakin (Call from Fighter): Ill be right back. Dont wait for me.

R2-D2 defeats and kills R3-S6, Anakin arrives in his fighter.

Anakin: Come on, R2.

Anakin, R2-D2 and the Twilight escape. The Secret Listening Post crashes. It is destroyed.



TWILIGHT SHIP

Obi-Wan Kenobi (Hologram): So let me get this straight, Anakin. You risked the mission, all your men, even your Padawan, to save a droid.

Anakin Skywalker: R2 found the listening post, and he saved our lives. We couldnt just leave him there, Obi-Wan.

Obi-Wan (Hologram): Oh, Anakin. One day

Ahsoka Tano: Im glad we got R2 back, Master. But Obi-Wan does have a point.

Anakin: Ahsoka, I knew you would complete the mission. Besides, R2 is more than a droid. Hes a friend.


Ep 8 - Bombad Jedi

The clone war threatens the unity of the Republic. As battles rage across the galaxy, more worlds had come to the seductive lure of the Separatists and leave the Republic. On a vital mission of peace, Senator Padm Amidala journeys to Outer Rim world of Rodia desperate to ensure its loyalty remains to the Republic. Senator Amidala, I just received words that you have ventured through enemy territory into the Outer Rim Senator Farr requested me personally, Chancellor. His planet is in crisis. His people are starving. He's a very old family friend. I could not refuse his plea for help. I understand, but in these dangerous times, you should be accompanied by a clone escort. This is a mission of peace. I put my faith in diplomacy. We can't solve all of our problems by throwing troops at them. Yousa no needing to worry, Chancellor. - As resempative of Nab - Jar Jar, look out! What is happening? May I recommend that only those who are qualified for these delicate peace talks participate in them. I will follow your advice, Chancellor. Thank you. Lookee, lookee, it's a swamp planet just like home. Meesa have to get going. Jar Jar, you would be doing me a great favor by staying with the ship. Meesa knowing meesa be big help with the negotiations. I need you to watch over 3PO. You know how he always gets himself into trouble. Trouble, me? Really. I won't be long. Meesa understands, My Lady. His Excellency, Ah-Twa. I've missed you so much. I was afraid you might not come. We are such a small and humble system. Uncle Ono, you are very important to me. We've been friends since I was a little girl, when you were my father's strongest ally in the Senate. Rodia is very important to the Republic, and of course I'd come to help you. You speak of friendship I have not witnessed of late. Where was the Republic when our supply ships were destroyed by pirates? Where was the Republic as my people starved? We have been stranded out here without any help at all. I know it is not your fault, but my people starve all the same. I'm sure the Republic Senate will approve a relief effort. The vote was postponed, but you will get your food. I am sorry. It is too late, my sweet. The Separatist leader Nute Gunray has promised to support us with a very generous relief effort. He is giving us food, ships, and protection. Nute Gunray cannot be trusted. He will bring war to your system just as he did to mine many years ago. I am afraid I have already done what I must for my people. Viceroy, I should have known. You won't get away this time, Senator. Your friend made a deal with me, and you are part of it. 3PO, come in, 3PO. - Stop her. - Three No one can help you now. I am so sorry, my sweet. I had no choice. There's always a choice. - To live in fear is no life at all. - Take her away. Please, Uncle Ono, don't do this. You have made a wise decision, Senator. I will be there within the hour to bring food for your people and collect my prize. How rude. I'm afraid the local swamp life doesn't have a very high opinion of us. - Whaten dey speaking? - I couldn't possibly repeat it. Theesa swamp dwellers just like meesa. I will convince them of our good fellowship. Do be careful, Jar Jar. I don't think they're quite like your friends on Naboo. Meesa make contact. Oh, dear. I don't think that requires translation. Thisen is a different swamp altogether. Sorry. Oh, my stars. Battle droids. Weesa in trouble now. Stop where you are. Wait for me! Jar Jar, you great webfoot, you're squashing my circuits. Blast 'em. Wait, where are you going? Oh, no. I'll be crushed for sure. - Hang on, Three-so! - It's 3PO. That was close. What are you doing? Get me down at once. It's not too late. Uncle Ono, you can stop this madness. Keep moving, prisoner. Look out, Jar Jar. A crab droid is headed right for you. Headed for meesa? Yes, yousa! No, Jar Jar, go to your left. Behind you. Watch out. I can't bear to watch. Oh, no. Jar Jar's been killed. I knew something like this would happen. What a horrible way to die, and it's all my fault. He was so brave. Now he's gone forever. Meesa okay. Jar Jar, you're alive. Meesa okay, Three-so. Meesa okay. If you've finished messing around, I need help. - Jar Jar, kindly don't do that. - But meesa save-ed you. That's the end of our ship. Typical. Are those chains necessary? Welcome to the separatist way, Senator. Viceroy Gunray's orders. I hope it's worth it to you. Thisa one big mess. Weesa going nowhere. Perhaps we should try to contact the clone troopers. Lookee. Here's a button that's still working. What did you break now? Meesa doing nothing. Thatsa looken like a Jedi robe. Whosa you supos'n this belongs to? I wouldn't know. But our only hope is to hide in this closet until Mistress Padm returns. If those droids attacking us, Padm's probably in trouble. My Lady gave us very specific instructions to remain here. Fiddlesticks. We musta hafta try and saving her. Jar Jar Binks, have you gone completely mad? You'll do more harm than good. Good. I shall meet the Viceroy when he lands. What about Senator Amidala's companions? If there are no signs of her friends, they must have fled into the jungle. Yes, this is perfect. I want no sign of trouble. Our people need those supplies. Wait. Meesa eyeball's stuck in the sleeve. - Just look at you. - Something's wrongo here. The battle droids will surely capture you, or worse, me. Not with thisa on. Theysa won't be recognizing me. - You can't be serious. - Co me on, Three-so, - we can do it. - I have a very bad feeling about this. The citizens of Rodia welcome you, Viceroy. Where is Senator Amidala? Awaiting your arrival as promised. Excellent. I do not wish to keep her waiting. Shall we go? We are holding the Senator in the detention tower. I hope it is not too painful for her. Sheesa up in that tower? Weesa got to rescuing her. And how precisely do you propose to do that? Look, a Jedi. We're doomed. - A Jedi? - Jedi? Where's a Jedi? I do believe they mean you. - Meesa not a Jedi. - Kill the Jedi. Don't shoot. We surrender! Forget surrender! Weesa run! - Is he dead? - The Jedi got away. He slipped through this grate and went underwater. Sound the alarm! Find that Jedi! I can see your busy, so I'll just be going now. And take that Republic droid scum to the dismantling center. Dismantling center? Wait, wait. I'm innocent. I'm innocent, I tell you. Let's find that Jedi. Roger, roger. Take me to Senator Amidala at once! There's a bad boogie monster down there, you betcha. Don't be fearing, Padm. Meesa coming. Better watch out. There's a Jedi on the loose. You know, you will soon be destroyed. I can't tell you how many times I've seen battle droids sliced in half by a lone Jedi. Quiet you. All right, cut the chatter. I want you troops to go outside and secure the perimeter. You made it. I'm rescued at last. Hurry before the battle droids figure out what's happening. - Quiet in there! - Thank you. Let's get out of here, Master Jedi. Jedi? There's no Jedi in here. Wait, there's no prisoner in here. How did she do that? Where's the alarm button? I am a protocol droid - fluent in over 6 million forms of - Quiet. Mistress Padm. Thank The Maker you're safe. Have you - Where's Jar Jar? - I'm afraid he went to rescue you. - What about the Jedi? - There is no Jedi. It appears the battle droids have mistaken Jar Jar for one. That's not good. Hang on, My Lady. This is our chance to capture Viceroy Gunray, but I need you to stay calm. Go back to the ship and call for help. I regret the transmitters on the ship are out of order. What? - The ship has been destroyed. - Battle droids? All right, then find a communications room and send out a distress signal. Hopefully there're some clone ships within range. I'll track down Jar Jar. Viceroy Gunray, when can we expect the supplies to arrive? My people are starving. They haven't arrived yet? I'm sorry. Your request will be taken into consideration after Senator Amidala's execution. Execution? You can't. She's a prisoner of war. We were promised. You are under my protection now, and you will do what I demand of you. Padm was right. I have made a grave mistake joining with the separatists. I know, I know. We must appease Viceroy Gunray so he does not destroy us all. Be on alert for that Jedi. He is our only hope. Bring Senator Amidala before me. She caused a great deal of damage to our droids, and she escaped, sir. - Escaped? - It's the Jedi! Shoot him! Thisa rescuing is hard jobbing. Capture her! Oh, dear. The Jedi has been spotted in the south hall. - Let's move. - Roger, roger. I think that was rather clever. Sir, over there! The Jedi is escaping. Not likely. Freeze. Surrender. Where did she go? What the Senator Amidala. So good to see you at last. Hello? I say, is anyone there? Why is there never an R2 unit when you need one? This is a restricted frequency. Who is this? I am C-3PO, human-cyborg No droids. This code is for military use only. This is a priority message from Senator Amidala on Rodia. - We require immediate assist - Hold it. - Oh, dear. - You're under arrest. So you didn't find the Jedi, then? You got him, boss. Too bad you can't take out that slug monster. Yousa okay, bogey? Yousa save-ed me. Yousa my new palo. Mistress Padm, where you able to find Jar Jar? I think Jar Jar's dead, 3PO. Not again. Oh, poor Jar Jar. He was always such a misfit. I want to make sure this time. Don't do this, Viceroy. I beg you, do not kill her. There must be another way. Silence! I say, I think there has been some horrible mistake. I am a protocol droid on a diplomatic Ready. Aim. It's the Jedi! - It's the Je Juh - Jedi. Release the Senator. That Jedi is going to attack. Shoot him! Shoot them all! That Jedi has summoned a monster. We have to get out of here. I made a very good friend. Hold it right there, Viceroy. At last we can finish this. Onaconda, it is about time. Blast that Jedi and shoot her! Uncle Ono, I think it's time to tell the Viceroy about our little secret, how you never meant to leave the Republic and how you truly care what's best for your people. What is she talking about? Sorry, Viceroy, she is right. I am with the Republic, and you are under arrest. You will pay for this treachery. Viceroy, you are going to spend the rest of the war in a cell. Your victory will be fleeting, Senators. Those are Republic warships. The clones have arrived. We got your message, general. What are your orders? My message got through. Take this separatist scum away. Master Bombad, on behalf of the people of Rodia, I thank you. You're either the bravest or the most foolish Jedi I have ever met. I'm just a gungan, and I don't think I'm either. Well, I think you're a little bit of both. Senator Amidala has brought your people's needs to my attention, and I have already sent a convoy of supply ships to your system. Thank you, Chancellor. The capture of Viceroy Gunray is a major victory for the Republic. All of you should be commended for your courage, and from what I hear, especially you representative Binks. Ah, it'sa nothing. Can you ever forgive me, Padm? It is the Republic that should be asking your forgiveness, my old friend. Far too often, we forget that our most important allies are not always the most powerful.

Ep 9 - Cloak of Darkness
Narrator: Ignore your instincts at your peril. Viceroy Gunray captured. Senator Padm Amidala has scored a victory against the Separatist alliance on the remote world of Rodia, securing the arrest of diabolical Confederate leader Nute Gunray. The Jedi Council has dispatched Master Luminara Unduli and Anakin Skywalkers Padawan, Ahsoka, to escort the Viceroy to Coruscant under heavy guard. Once there, he will face trial for his many war crimes.


REPUBLIC SHIP COCKPIT

Luminara Unduli: Captain, have you made contact with the cruiser?

Random Clone: Yes, General. Well patch you through now.

They make contact with the cruiser.

Luminara: Jedi Cruiser Tranquility, this is General Luminara Unduli requesting permission to land.

Captain Argyus (Call from Cruiser): You are cleared, General. We await your prisoners arrival.

Luminara: Thank you, Captain Argyus. I look forward to delivering him to you.


REPUBLIC SHIP CELL

Nute Gunray: I am a man of great wealth, and I can be very generous to my allies.

Commander Gree: That is a very tempting offer, Viceroy. In the meantime, I have a gift for you.

Shows handcuffs.


REPUBLIC SHIP COCKPIT

Ahsoka Tano: Finally. Its been such a boring trip.

They board the cruiser.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY LANDING BAY

Nute Gunray is escorted to his new cell.

Nute Gunray: This is an outrageous miscarriage of justice! I demand my litigator!

Commander Gree: Keep moving.

The escort composed of Luminara Unduli, Ahsoka Tano and other clones meets Captain Argyus and his Senate commandos.

Captain Argyus: Greetings, General. We have the brig all ready for this traitor.

Luminara Unduli: Very good, Captain. Commander Gree, lets get on the way.

Commander Gree: Right away, sir. Lets move!

Ahsoka Tano: Senate commandos? How does a money-grubbing worm like Gunray rate all this security? He doesnt look that dangerous.

Luminara: Dont let your overconfidence give Gunray another advantage, Ahsoka. Even now, his allies may be conspiring against us.


SEPARATIST CRUISER

Darth Sidious (Hologram): Gunrays capture could be a serious threat to us, my friend. The Viceroy will not last long under Jedi interrogation.

Count Dooku: I have already put a plan into action, my lord. My best agent, Asajj Ventress, will infiltrate the Jedi ship and either free Gunray or silence him.

Sidious (Hologram): Ventress? You are putting a great deal of faith in an operative who has failed us in the past.

Dooku: She is a gifted assassin. You have my word. She will complete her mission to the letter.

Sidious (Hologram): Very well. You may proceed.

Sidious ends call. Asajj Ventress enters the room.

Asajj Ventress: Master.

Dooku: There is no margin for error this time, child. You must prove yourself worthy of being my apprentice.

Ventress: I am worthy, as you shall see.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY BRIG

Captain Argyus: How goes the interrogation? Has the Viceroy cracked?

Commander Gree: Not yet. Neimoidians are a slippery lot, but the Jedi will wear him down.

The interrogation continues inside Nute Gunrays cell.

Luminara Unduli: Your thoughts betray you, Viceroy. I can sense your concern. The fear that you will lose the wealth and the power that the war has given you.

Nute Gunray: I have no idea what youre talking about.

Luminara: You hide a great many things. The name of your secret allies. The locations of their bases.

Gunray: I am an innocent pawn in all of this!

Luminara: If youre merely a pawn, then who are you protecting?

Gunray: No one! I I know nothing!

Ahsoka Tano: Liar! Liar! Im tired of all this whining!

Ahsoka menaces him by putting her lightsaber under his throat.

Ahsoka: Tell us what we want to know right now, or I will gut you like a Rokarian dirt fish!

Luminara: Padawan!

Luminara pulls Ahsoka aside.

Luminara: Terror is not a weapon the Jedi use.

Ahsoka: I wasnt serious! But the only way hell talk is if hes scared enough.

Gunray: Perhaps I was too hasty. Let us negotiate.

The cruiser shakes.

Commander Gree: Captain! Status report!

Random Clone (Comlink): Droid fighters incoming! Theyve brought boarding ships!

The Separatist fighters attack the cruiser.

Gree: Green Company, prepare to repel the enemy!

Green Company goes to landing bay. The droids board and a battle between the two starts.

Green Leader (Comlink): Green Leader to Commander Gree! Super battle droids have breached our hull! Theyre headed for the detention level. We need reinforcements.

Luminara: Commander, Ill need your assistance.

Ahsoka: Lets go.

Luminara: You will stay here with Captain Argyus. Guard the Viceroy.

Ahsoka: But

Luminara gives her an authoritarian look.

Ahsoka: As you wish, Master.

Luminara and Gree leave the brig.

Gunray: It appears you are in no position to negotiate after all, Padawan. Perhaps after my rescue

Ahsoka: Rescue? Maybe theyre to make sure you wont talk.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY LANDING BAY

Asajj Ventress boards.

Random Clone: All units! Theres a

Ventress kills him.

Random Clone (Comlink): Trooper! What have you found? Come in, trooper! Do you copy?

Ventress takes the arm comlink and wears it. She cuts a hole through the ventilation and gets in.

Random Clone (Comlink): Super battle droids are everywhere. Fall back to the detention level! We have to protect the prisoner!


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY ENGINE ROOM

Asajj Ventress sneaks in. Two random clones enter.

Random Clone: See anything?

Random Clone: Engine room seems clear. Well lock it down.

Random Clone (Comlink): Good, Captain. The enemy is advancing toward the prison level.

Random Clone: Were on our way. You keep watch here, 327.

327-T expresses his dissatisfaction to be called by his nickname.

Random Clone: Okay, okay, 327-T.

Random Clone: You know droids never like to be called by their nicknames.

They leave the engine room. Ventress manages to set a few detonators without droid 327-T seeing it.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY CORRIDORS

Commander Gree destroys the last droid.

Commander Gree: There. Looks like the last of them, General.

Luminara Unduli: Yes, Commander. But I sense our troubles are not over.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY BRIG

Ahsoka Tano: Sounds like your rescue didnt work out after all.

Nute Gunray: I am ready to discuss bargain again.

Captain Argyus: Padawan Tano. May I have a word?

Ahsoka: Certainly, Captain. If I leave, you wont go anywhere, will you?

Gunray ironically laughs.

Argyus: Ive got the all-clear. The enemy has been repelled.

Ahsoka: And their attempt to free Gunray has failed?

Asajj Ventress cuts a hole through the entrance. She defeats the Senate commandos.

Ahsoka: If it isnt the hairless harpy.

Asajj Ventress: If it isnt Skywalkers filthy, obnoxious little pet.

Ahsoka: How nice of you. Tell you what, Ill give you a merciful death.

The two of them engage into a duel. Luminara Unduli senses Ahsokas trouble.

Arguys: Shoot her!

Ventress quickly defeats the whole entire Senate commando.

Ventress: Skywalkers not here to save you now.

Ahsoka: Good thing I dont need saving.

Gunray: Over here! Open this door and Ill buy you a planet!

Ventress frees Gunray, and Ahsoka gets tricked and is locked inside the cell.

Gunray: Yes! Yes! Such delicious irony! How do you like your room now, youngling?

Luminara Unduli and Commander Gree enter the brig.

Luminara Unduli: Halt, assassin!

Luminara frees Ahsoka and they defeat Ventress.

Luminara: Surrender.

Ventress seems to surrender but actually detonates the detonators. She then escapes through the elevator.

Ahsoka: What are we waiting for?

Ahsoka jumps into the elevator.

Luminara: Ahsoka!

Luminara saves Ahsoka from certain death by retaining her and letting the elevator pass.

Ahsoka: Thanks.

Arguys: Everythings running haywire. Doors, lifts. Communications down, propulsions dead. Shes crippled the entire ship.

Luminara: Our attacker has come for Gunray. Stay here and guard him. Ill confront her myself.

Ahsoka: Master, all due respect, but Ventress is too powerful for any one Jedi to fight alone. Let me help you.

Luminara: I am more than capable of dealing with a lone assassin armed with undisciplined fighting skills.

Ahsoka: But

Luminara: Stay here, and keep a clear head.

Luminara leaves the brig.

Ahsoka: Luminara Unduli may be a Jedi Master, but she has no idea what that bog witch is capable of. No idea. I cant let her face that lowlife alone. Wouldnt we have a better chance of stopping her if I helped?

Arguys: Sometimes, being a good soldier means doing what we think is right. Thats why were superior to droids.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY ENGINE ROOM

Luminara Unduli and Asajj Ventress have engaged into a duel.

Asajj Ventress: Do you think youll still be able to call on the Force after Ive separated your head from your body?

Luminara Unduli: Even with my vision clouded, I recognise the fighting style of Count Dooku. Your version is unrefined. Amateurish. Sloppy.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY BRIG

Ahsoka Tano: I cant disobey a direct order and leave my post, can I?

Commander Gree: I wouldnt.

Captain Argyus: But dont worry, weve got this under control, Master Jedi. Your friend wont be going anywhere.

Nute Gunray: All I know is, I never risk my own skin if I dont have to.

Ahsoka gives him a weird look.

Gunray: What?

Ahsoka: Watch him closely.

Argyus: You can trust us, Commander.

Ahsoka leaves.

Gree: Call us if you need help, sir!


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY ENGINE ROOM

Asajj Ventress manages to defeat Luminara Unduli.

Asajj Ventress: Now you fall, as all Jedi must.

Ahsoka Tano enters the engine room. She pushes Ventress with the force and saves Luminara.

Ahsoka Tano: I know, I know. You told me to stay.

Luminara Unduli: Well, as long as youre here

Ventress goes into hiding.

Luminara: We have to find her. We cant let her get to Gunray.

Ventress sends a transmission to Captain Argyus.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY BRIG

Captain Argyus receives a transmission from Asajj Ventress.

Random Senate Commando: Whats that, Captain?

Captain Argyus: Oh, nothing to worry about.

He shoots his own Senate Commandos and kills them.

Commander Gree: Hey! What are you doing?

He engages into a fight with Gree and frees Nute Gunray.

Nute Gunray: No. Please. Dont!

Argyus: Oh, do shut up. Count Dooku is paying me a fortune to deliver your slimy carcass. So, please, try to stay alive.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY ENGINE ROOM

Ahsoka Tano and Luminara Unduli are still looking for Asajj Ventress.

Luminara Unduli: Ahsoka

Ahsoka Tano: What happened to Padawan Tano?

Luminara: This assassin, Ive never faced an adversary like her. I should have listened to your advice.

Ahsoka: Master, I never meant to overstep my bounds, but

Luminara receives a call.

Commander Gree (Comlink): General Unduli! Weve been betrayed! Argyus has freed Gunray!

Luminara: Ive been a fool!

Ventress finally shows herself.

Ahsoka: Well take her together.

A lightsaber battle starts. Ventress is against Luminara and Ahsoka this time.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY BRIG

Commander Gree: Stop! This is your last warning!

Nute Gunray: Dont shoot! I am an innocent pawn!

Captain Argyus: He wont shoot. He doesnt want to damage his prize.

Gree shoots on Argyus blaster. Argyus has now no weapon, and holds Gunray as a hostage.

Gree: Stand down, Captain.

Argyus: Come and get me!

Argyus frees Gunray and starts fighting Gree.

Gree: Whyd you do it, Argyus?

Argyus: A clone like you would never understand. I wanted a life more than empty servitude.

Gree: And for that, youd betray the Republic?

Argyus: Like I told the Padawan, sometimes being a good soldier means doing what you think is right.

Gree finally defeats Argyus.

Gree: You and I disagree on what makes a good

Gree is hit by Gunray. He is left unconscious. Argyus gets up.

Gunray: You should have taken my offer when you had the chance, clone.

Argyus and Gunray escape and board on a small ship to get away.

Argyus: The outer shields are still down. The ship is still in turmoil. Were home free.

Argyus and Gunray leave the cruiser.

Argyus: As successful a rescue as one could hope for, Viceroy. Ill be a legend for this.

Gunray: I always had a good feeling about you, Captain.

On her side, Asajj Ventress has finally managed to escape Luminara Unduli and Ahsoka Tano. She is on the small ship and she enters the cockpit.

Argyus: You see, assassin? Our plan went off without a hitch.

Asajj Ventress: Our plan?

Argyus: And I will, of course, make sure your contributions are noted in my report to Count Dooku.

Ventress kills Argyus.

Ventress: Ill tell him myself. Greetings, Viceroy.

Gunray: I always had a good feeling about you, assassin.


REPUBLIC CRUISER TRANQUILITY

Ahsoka Tano: Im sorry that despicable wealth-worm Gunray got away.

Anakin Skywalker (Hologram): Its okay, Snips. I know you did your best.

Ahsoka: Master, I

Yoda (Hologram): Troubling is the treachery of the Senate Guard, Captain Argyus. Revealed all around us our enemies are.

Luminara Unduli: Im not sure all is lost. Gunray and his accomplices stole a Republic ship to make their getaway.

Anakin (Hologram): It could be tracked!

Luminara: Indeed.

Yoda (Hologram): A coward Viceroy Gunray is, but powerful allies he has. Swiftly we must move if we are to recapture him.

Luminara: Master Fistos fleet was near Gunrays position. Ive already contacted him to follow the signal.

Anakin (Hologram): Ahsoka, Ill meet you at the rendezvous point.

Ahsoka: Yes, Master.

Anakin and Yoda end the call.

Ahsoka: Master Luminara, I guess this is goodbye for now.

Luminara: I owe you my life, Ahsoka.

Ahsoka: Protecting a Jedi Master is the role of a Padawan.

Luminara: And teaching is usually the role of the Master. Master Skywalker should be proud. Farewell.

Ahsoka: Thank you, Master.

Luminara: Commander, lets get on the way.

Commander Gree: Yes, General. Ahead full!



Ep 10 - Lair of Grievous

Narrator: Viceroy Gunray escapes! En route to Coruscant to stand trial for war crimes, evil Separatist leader Nute Gunray has broken free of his Jedi escort. With the help of Count Dooku's sinister agents, the villainous viceroy has made a daring getaway. Alerted to the bold prison break, Jedi Master Kit Fisto has traced the stolen ship to a remote system, hoping to recapture Gunray and return him to justice.
Kit Fisto: I know we're in the middle of nowhere, R6, but that's the Republic beacon we're looking for. Contact the Outer Rim command. Master Luminara, I have tracked the location of our stolen ship to the Vassek system.
Master Luminara (Hologram): So has your old Padawan, Nahdar Vebb. He's already on the surface.
Kit Fisto: It'll be great to see Nahdar again.
Ahsoka Tano (Hologram): I'll transmit the coordinates for the rendezvous point. And Master Fisto, sorry we lost that slimy double-dealer.
Kit Fisto: Don't worry, Ahsoka, we'll catch Gunray yet.
Ahsoka Tano (Hologram): Good hunting.
Kit Fisto: Well, I can't see anything either. You'll be fine, R6. Just keep a lookout for me, okay? Nahdar. Congratulations on passing the trials. I'm sorry the war prevented me from seeing your traing through to the end.
Nahdar Vebb: You were missed, Master, but it is an honor to finally serve beside you as a Knight.
Commander Fil: General, we've pinpointed the tracking beacon's location to the south end of the gorge.
Kit Fisto: Then let's have a look.
Nahdar Vebb: Allow me to show the way.
Kit Fisto: Charming. Let's not keep the Viceroy waiting.
Commander Fil: Niner, Bel, look after the ships.
Niner and Bel: Yes, sir.
Kit Fisto: No guards? That's odd.
Nahdar Vebb: The entrance looks sealed.
Commander Fil: We specialize in making entrances.
Nahdar Vebb: This will make less noise.
Kit Fisto: Patience, the both of you. A second look usually pays off. What's this? I sense there's something here.
Commander Fil: Scanners are negative, General.
Niner: Well, that was something.
Nute Gunray: All droids stay on guard. Be ready for anything.
Battle Droids: Roger, roger.
Nute Gunray: Double shifts for everyone.
Battle Droid: Uh, Viceroy?
Nate Gunray: You must protect me at all costs.
Battle Droid: Uh, Viceroy, the Jedi are here.
Nate Gunray: I know they're near. Once those Jedi pick up my trail, they never leave me alone.
Battle Droid: They're right behind you.
Nate Gunray: What? Where? Do something. You! Blast them!
Kit Fisto: I didn't forget to teach you restraint, did I, my old Padawan?
Nahdar Vebb: I am sorry, Master. I got carried away.
Kit Fisto: Those who have power should restrain themselves from using it.
Nate Gunray: Lieutenant. Did you get them?
Nahdar Vebb: No, but we have you, Viceroy.
Nate Gunray (Hologram): You have nothing, Jedi fools. I welcome you to your doom. (Laughs) (Calls off)
Nahdar Vebb: The tracking beacon. They knew we were coming.
Kit Fisto: I should have known Gunray wasn't here. At the first sight of us, he would have run off screaming like the coward he is.
Count Dooku (Hologram): I apologize for the deception, Master Jedi.
Kit Fisto: Count Dooku. You have a great talent for unexpected appearances.
Count Dooku (Hologram): It's a shame you came so far to be frustrated. While the Viceroy is unavailable for capture, allow me to offer you an alternative prize. (Calls off)
Commander Fil: This has got to be a trap.
Kit Fisto: It looks like Dooku is trying to catch someone, and we're the bait.
Nahdar Vebb: But who has the trap been set to catch? Shall we find out?
Kit Fisto: This place looks like a shrine to that strange warrior. This is the lair of General Grievous.
General Grievous: Yes, my lord?
Count Dooku (Hologram): General, the ongoing stalemate in the war has become unacceptable. There is concern you have lost your focus. Lord Sidious demands more dramatic results, more dead Jedi.
General Grievous: You expect victory over Jedi, but all you give me to fight them is battle droids.
Nahdar Vebb: These must be trophies taken from the Jedi he's murdered. There are so many.
Kit Fisto: Why would Dooku want to set a trap for his best General?
Nahdar Vebb: Are we the bait, or is Grievous the bait?
Kit Fisto: We must consider who this trap is for.
Bel: General, your droid is tracking an incoming ship. It matches a description of General Grievous' fighter. It's headed our way.
Kit Fisto: Keep out of sight and stand by for further orders.
Nahdar Vebb: Capturing Grievous could turn the tide of the war.
Commander Fil: And if he doesn't know we're here, we could take him down easy.
Kit Fisto: Don't underestimate him. We'll need a plan.
General Grievous: Guards? Gore? Gore, where are you?
Kit Fisto: Welcome home, General. I'm afraid I must request your surrender. Cooperate, Grievous, and perhaps the Senate will be merciful.
General Grievous: It is you who shall get no mercy.
Kit Fisto: Cables!
Commander Fil: Don't let him go! We got him.
Kit Fisto: Don't let him cut the lines!
Commander Fil: Hold him.
Nahdar Vebb: Don't make me destroy you.
General Grievous: Come and get me.
Nahdar Vebb: Cut him off!
Commander Fil: Where'd he go?
Nahdar Vebb: The clones got in the way. I could have taken him.
Kit Fisto: Let's take care of our wounded.
General Grievous: Doctor, where are you?
EV-A4-D: Don't be upset with me, master. If you were a better fighter, we would not be having this conversation. Look what you let those Jedi do to you. You're a walking scrap pile. What a mess. It's going to take me forever to get you back into decent shape. I'll go fetch your spare parts.
General Grievous: What happened to my bodyguards?
EV-A4-D: They were remotely deactivated for recharge. I thought you did it.
General Grievous: Lock down the perimeter.
Nahdar Vebb: Let me go after Grievous myself, Master.
Kit Fisto: Patience, Nahdar. You may no longer be a Padawan, but you are not ready to take on Grievous. It's time we retreated.
General Grievous: You are not going anywhere.
Kit Fisto: It looks like we're going to have to fight after all.
Commander Fil: Green scout to watcher base.
Bel: Copy.
Commander Fil: This is watcher base, over. Contact the fleet at Besteene. Inform them we've engaged Grievous and require reinforcements.
Bel: Right away, sir. Better warm up the shuttle's long-range transmitter.
Kit Fisto: Get out of there, R6, now! R6? R6?
General Grievous (Hologram): You've run out of time.
Kit Fisto: Why don't you come out, General? Show us some of that Separatist hospitality.
General Grievous (Hologram): Patience. In the meantime, please experience all my home has to offer. It has been prepared for uninvited guests like you.
Kit Fisto: General, I know you're watching. We've seen the lower levels of your home. We're not impressed.
General Grievous: (Laughs) Good, Jedi, good. You will provide some sport for me yet. Gore, time to entertain our guests.
Kit Fisto: Stand firm. There might be worse things here than Grievous.
Commander Fil: It looks like you're right about that, sir.
General Grievous: Good-bye, Jedi.
Ev-A4-D: Master, the armor patches are getting cold, and contrary to your belief, I do have other things to do. Proceed with my repair.
General Grievous: Proceed with my repair.
EV-A4-D: Sometimes I wonder why you submitted to the changes.
General Grievous: Improvements. I submit to no one. I chose them. Now get on with it.
EV-A4-D: There may be some discomfort.
Nahdar Vebb: Shoot him, commander! Grievous is going to pay for this. I will destroy him.
Kit Fisto: I understand your pain, but you forget your teachings, Nahdar. Revenge is not the Jedi way.
Nahdar Vebb: But in this war, strength prevails. The rules have changed.
Kit Fisto: Perhaps you are the one who has changed. Come now, we need to keep moving.
General Grevious: Let's see if Gore is finished playing with the Jedi. Huh? Where are they? Gore?
EV-A4-D: Master, you have an incoming transmission from Count Dooku.
Count Dooku (Hologram): General, I understand the Jedi have infiltrated your lair. Your recent defeats at their hands have shaken my faith in your ability to lead the droid army. I'm sure you can understand my need to reassess your effectiveness.
General Grievous: You! You deactivated my guards. You let the Jedi in here so you would test me.
Count Dooku (Hologram): I do hope you emerge victorious.
General Grievous: Ha!
Count Dooku: It's time for you to prove-- (Calls off)
General Grievous: Oops. All right, Count. I'll play your little game.
EV-A4-D: In your condition, you need your rest.
General Grievous: I will rest when the Jedi are dead.
Nahdar Vebb: You were right, Master. That exit must lead to the control room.
EV-A4-D: Oh, what have we here? The uninvited guests.
Kit Fisto: Let's go.
EV-A4-D: Master, the Jedi are about to enter the control room.
Kit Fisto: Nahdar, inside, hurry!
Nahdar Vebb: No, you go. I will hold him off.
Kit Fisto: There's no time to argue.
Nahdar Vebb: We can't just run. We must finish him.
Kit Fisto: Nahdar, hurry!
Nahdar Vebb: I have been waiting for this.
Kit Fisto: Nahdar!
General Grievous: Greetings, young Jedi. Where is your Master?
EV-A4-D: How exciting.
Nahdar Vebb: You will find out soon enough. You can't defeat us all.
General Grievous: Of course I can.
EV-A4-D: Get him, master. Kill him. Wait. Where's the other Jedi? Oh, no.
Nahdar Vebb: No.
General Grievous: I will kill you all. Do you hear me, Jedi?
Kit Fisto: R6? Is that you? Meet me at the south landing platform. I'll be right there.
General Grievous: I'm coming for you next, Fisto.
Kit Fisto: I'll be gone by the time you get here. R6, I'm at the platform. Where are you?
General Grievous: Going somewhere? Huh?
Kit Fisto: You might have been a proud warrior once, but now you're just a pawn in Dooku's game.
General Grievous: I wield great power, Jedi fool.
Kit Fisto: That power will only consume you.
General Grievous: How quickly power can change hands. Surrender, and I promise you will die quickly. Stop him!
Kit Fisto: Let's go home, R6.
General Grievous: Count Dooku, the Jedi have been defeated.
Count Dooku (Hologram): Victory over the clones and the young Jedi was expected, but to best a Jedi Master This is truly an accomplishment worthy of recognition.
General Grievous: The Jedi Fisto escaped.
Count Dooku (Hologram): So there is room for improvement. (Calls off)
Mace Windu: What about your former Padawan?
Kit Fisto: His heart was in the right place, but he tried to answer Grievous' power with his own.
Yoda: To answer power with power, the Jedi way this is not. In this war, a danger there is of losing who we are.
[End of Lair of Grievous]


Ep 11 - Dooku Captured

Narrator: The winding path to peace is always a worthy one, regardless of how many turns it takes. Manhunt! After a long and perilous search, the Jedi finally track down Separatist leader Count Dooku. During a heroic attempt to capture the count, Anakin Skywalker has gone missing. Having lost contact with Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi heads toward his friends last known location, a lone Separatist frigate in the far reaches of the Outer Rim.


SEPARATIST SHIP

Obi-Wan Kenobi opens a cell. He finds two nikto.

Obi-Wan Kenobi: Dont bother to get up. Youre not the prisoner Im looking for.

He closes the cell, goes to another one and finds Anakin Skywalker

Anakin Skywalker: Oh, its you.

Obi-Wan: This is how you thank me for rescuing you, pounce on me from the ceiling?

Anakin: Kind of difficult without a

Obi-Wan hands him his lightsaber.

Anakin: lightsaber. Thanks

Obi-Wan: Did you manage to locate Dooku before landing in jail?

Anakin: Well, I know hes on board. Might have been able to do something about it if Id had my weapon.

They leave Anakins cell.

Obi-Wan: It was important for you to arrive without it so your capture would be convincing.

Anakin: Oh, they were convinced, alright. But how come Im the one getting caught all the time? It doesnt look good.

Obi-Wan: When youre a Jedi master, you can make the plan.

Anakin: Thats just it. How can I become a Jedi master if Im always getting caught?

Obi-Wan: At least youre a master at getting caught.

Anakin: Very funny.

They arrive in Count Dookus quarters.

Obi-Wan: Surprise, surprise.

Anakin and Obi-Wan activate their lightsabers.

Obi-Wan: If it isnt Count Dooku.

Count Dooku: Obi-Wan Kenobi. I thought I sensed an unpleasant disturbance in the force. I see youve freed young Skywalker. Where might he be if you werent always around to rescue him?

The Separatist ship shakes.

Random Droid (Comlink): Sir, theres a Jedi cruiser attacking.

Anakin: Lets try not to blow up the ship before they get off this time.

Obi-Wan: Your ship is surrounded, Count. Republic troops are boarding as we speak.

Dooku: Jedi fools.

A hole under Dooku opens. He escapes.

Obi-Wan: I should have seen that coming.

Anakin goes near the hole.

Obi-Wan: What are you doing?

Anakin: Following him.

Obi-Wan: Not that way. We need to cut him off.

Anakin: You cut him off. Ill follow him and meet you at the hangar.

Anakin jumps in the hole.

Obi-Wan: Why do I even try?

Anakin and Dooku fight while falling. Dooku escapes. He arrives in the landing bay.

Random Droid: Your ship is ready, sir.

Dooku: Good.

Obi-Wan arrives in the landing bay when Dooku escapes on his personal ship. He takes a ship. Anakin arrives and gets on the ship.

Obi-Wan: I thought you were following Dooku.

Anakin: I was. I followed him here. Hang on.

They exit the ship and follow Dooku.

Anakin: Ahsoka, Dooku managed to escape. Were in pursuit, but we could use reinforcements. Follow us in what ships you can round up.

Ahsoka (Comlink): Well get there as soon as we can.

A chase starts between Anakin and Obi-Wan against Dooku. Anakin quickly blasts Dookus ship.

Anakin: That was easy. 

Obi-Wan: Lucky for you, Im an excellent shot.

Separatist fighters arrive and start shooting at them.

Obi-Wan: Well, now those fighters are attacking.

Anakin: Im on it. 

Dooku gets closer.

Anakin: Hes getting too close.

Their ships get blasted.

Anakin: Lucky for you, Im an excellent pilot.

They and Dooku crash-land on Vanqor, a nearby planet.

Obi-Wan: For all your expertise, this is not a very smooth landing.

Anakin: If youd hit that second fighter, we wouldnt be in this mess.


VANQOR

Obi-Wan: Ive had better landings.

Anakin points at Dookus ship.

Anakin: Dooku.

Obi-Wan sees something on it.

Obi-Wan: Whats this, a homing beacon?

Anakin: Which means the distinguished count is waiting for help. So he cant be far off.

Obi-Wan: His engine is damaged. Hes not going anywhere.

Anakin: Not without a homing beacon.

Anakin destroys the homing beacon.

Obi-Wan: There. Caves are a good start.

Anakin: Strange.

Obi-Wan: You sense it too. Many life forms in there.

Anakin: And Dookus one of them. Lets try to get him before something else does.

As they enter the cave, Dooku makes the entrance collapse.

Anakin: Whats that?

Obi-Wan: Run!

Both of them are crushed. Dooku takes Anakins lightsaber.

Dooku: You wont be needing this anymore, Skywalker.

As Dooku goes back to his ship, he sees Hondo Ohnaka and his men searching his ship.

Hondo Ohnaka: Well, well. What do we have here?

Dooku: Who are you?

Hondo: More importantly, my friend, who are you?


VANQOR CAVE

Anakin wakes up. He starts searching for Obi-Wan.

Anakin: Master! Obi-Wan, can you hear me? Master!

Obi-Wan appears.

Obi-Wan: Anakin, when I tell you to run, run.

Anakin: Master! Youre alive.

Obi-Wan: And wheres your lightsaber?

Anakin: It got knocked out of my hand.

Obi-Wan: By a rock?

Anakin: Yeah, by a rock. Its got to be here somewhere.

Obi-Wan: That is a feeble excuse.

Anakin: You know what would be helpful? A little light.

Obi-Wan: Certainly.

Obi-Wans lightsaber doesnt work.

Obi-Wan: Silly thing. It was just working a minute ago. You dont suppose it was hit by a rock do you?

A ferocious Gundark appears.

Obi-Wan: This should be interesting.


VANQOR

Hondo: Your solar sailor is very beautiful. Its a pretty rare ship, very expensive. What are you doing all the way out here?

Dooku: I sustained some damage in an asteroid storm and had to make a landing. Feel free to help yourself to it.

Hondo: If you need a transport, the nearest planet is Florrum. Its six parsecs away.

Dooku: Is it civilized?

Hondo: That depends on your definition of civilized. But you would certainly be more comfortable there than here. Vanqor is no place to be after dark.

Dooku: Perhaps I shall take you up on your offer.

Hondo: Very good. Now all thats left to do is settle my fee.

Dooku: Fee?

Hondo: Just a little something to cover my expenses. It shouldnt be a problem for someone so obviously wealthy as yourself.

Dooku: Id be happy to compensate you for your services.

Hondo: Thats it boys! We are heading home.


VANQOR CAVE

Anakin is chased by a Gundark. Obi-Wan is repairing his lightsaber.

Anakin: Jump in anytime!

Obi-Wan: Oh, youre doing fine. She seems to like you.

Anakin: Yeah, lucky me! This isnt as much fun as it looks. I thought gundarks were only found on Vanqor.

Obi-Wan: Then this system must be Vanqor.

Anakin: So that would make this one

Obi-Wan: The mother of all gundarks. Precisely.

Anakin: Are you gonna help me?

Obi-Wan throws a rock on the gundark.

Anakin: Well, you took your time.

The gundark gets up. They throw a lot of rocks at it. Its unconscious.

Anakin: Its a pity. I was just starting to sense a connection.

Obi-Wan: Should I leave you two alone, or would you prefer to find a way out of this hole before she wakes up?


HONDOS COMPLEX

Hondo, his group and Dooku arrive on Florrum.

Hondo: Welcome to Florrum.

Dooku reaches for his lightsaber, but realizes it is gone.

Hondo: Lose your flashy sword? Are these what you were looking for, Jedi?

Hondo shows Dooku and Anakins lightsabers.

Dooku: I am more powerful than any Jedi. Know that you are dealing with a Sith lord.

Hondo: Youre still outnumbered. The leader of the clanker army and a Sith lord, no less. Someone is sure to pay a pretty price for you.

Dooku: Provide me with the proper means of communication. I will arrange for any ransom to be paid.

Hondo: And you will arrange for your armies to crush us as well. You dont survive in the Outer Rim by being stupid. If the Separatists will pay to get you back, chances are, the Republic will offer even more.


VANQOR CAVE

Obi-Wan: Sounds like another gundark.

Anakin: Its too far away to worry about.

Obi-Wan: It wont stay far away.

Some rocks fall, gas is liberated.

Anakin: New problem.

Obi-Wan: Thats not good.

Anakin: Its just gas.

Obi-Wan: Probably toxic gas.

Anakin: Thats good. Maybe itll kill your gundark.

Obi-Wan: And maybe itll kill us.

Anakin: Come on. Lets get out of here.

Obi-Wan: This isnt gonna work. I cant breathe. As always, Im open to sugges

Obi-Wan falls, ill from the gas.

Anakin: Come on, Obi-Wan. Dont give up now.

Both of them fall, ill. A hole appears an exit is made. Ahsoka Tano is the cause of it.

Ahsoka Tano: Master! Looks like I got here just in time.

Anakin and Obi-Wan get up and get out of the cave.

Anakin: What do you mean, just in time?

Ahsoka: You were in very big trouble.

Obi-Wan: Trouble? We were simply searching for Count Dooku.

Anakin: We had the situation well under control, my little Padawan.

Ahsoka: I see. So which part of the situation did you have under control: the blocked entrance, the poison gas, or that gundark behind you?

Anakin: Gundark?

Obi-Wan: You mean the one thats too far away to worry about?

The gundark tries to attack them.

Ahsoka: Block the entrance.

The clones behind her shoot the top and some rocks fall, blocking the entrance.

Anakin: Theres still Dooku to deal with.

Ahsoka: You let him get away?

Anakin: No, not get away exactly. Just Chime in anytime.

Ahsoka gives him a disappointed look.

Obi-Wan: Oh, no. Im enjoying this far too much.


CHANCELLOR PALPATINES OFFICE

Hondo (Hologram): If you want the Sith lord, it will cost you a million credits. The payment will be in spice delivered in an unarmed diplomatic ship.

Palpatine: We will need proof hes alive before agreeing to your terms.

Hondo shows Dooku in the hologram.

Hondo (Hologram): Let me present your fearless Sith lord. Im afraid hes too embarrassed to speak.

Palpatine: A hologram can be faked.

Hondo (Hologram): You want proof? This is his lightsaber.

He activates Dookus lightsaber.

Yoda: Yes, belongs to Dooku, that lightsaber does.

Palpatine: This scum Having possession of Dookus lightsaber proves nothing.

Hondo (Hologram): If you refuse, I am sure the Separatist council will be more than willing to meet my price.

Padm Amidala: We may never have a better chance to capture Count Dooku.

Palpatine nods.

Padm: We would like to send two Jedi to confirm that you have Count Dooku before delivering the ransom.

Hondo (Hologram): Send your Jedi, but they must be unarmed.

Padm: Impossible.

Hondo (Hologram): They will be safe. We have no interest in getting involved in your war.

Mace Windu receives a communication.

Mace Windu: Weve reestablished contact with Kenobi and Skywalker. Theyre in a system close to Florrum.

Yoda: And most eager to find Dooku, they are.


REPUBLIC CRUISER

Mace (Hologram): His only stipulation is that you arrive unarmed.

Anakin: Unarmed?

Obi-Wan: We know very little about these pirates. We may be walking blind into what could very well be a hostile situation.

Mace (Hologram): We cant let Dooku slip through our fingers again. Report back as soon as you arrive.


HONDOS COMPLEX

Anakin and Obi-Wan arrive on Florrum.

Obi-Wan: This should be fun.

A guard searches them.

Random Pirate: Follow me.

He leads them to Hondo.

Hondo: Gentlemen. Can I offer you something to drink?

Obi-Wan: No, thank you. Congratulations on your capture of Count Dooku. Very impressive.

Hondo: Yes, it was. Even a Sith Lord is no match for my warriors. He put up quite a fight. Blasters, cannons, that glowy thing

Obi-Wan: You mean a lightsaber?

Hondo: Thats it. And I dont need to tell you, those things can do some damage. Carved up some of my best men pretty good before I could get the jump on him.

Anakin: And how exactly did you get the jump on him? With this?

Anakin takes back his lightsaber from Hondo. He is menaced by all the pirates. A little creature takes it back.

Obi-Wan: We have no interest in disagreeing with you. All we want is to confirm you are holding Dooku, and well go.

Hondo: I will arrange a meeting.


DOOKUS CELL

Obi-Wan: Look how the mighty Sith Lord has fallen.

Anakin: This place suits you, Count.

Dooku: It wasnt so long ago that you yourself were in similar surroundings on my ship.

Anakin: Yeah, but now Im free, and youre not.

Dooku: Im confident the situation will rectify itself soon.

Obi-Wan: Soon youll be brought to trial by the Senate and most likely spend a very long time in a cell just like this one.

Anakin: And thats if youre lucky.

Dooku: My naive young Jedi, you must be overly optimistic if you think these Weequayans plan to let you leave this planet.

Anakin: Theyre planet-hopping thieves looking for a quick score. They have no interest in picking a fight with Jedi.

Dooku: They are devious and deceitful and most importantly, stupid.

Obi-Wan: Its a wonder you dont get along with them Dooku. You have so much in common.

Dooku: You underestimate them at your own peril, Kenobi.

Anakin and Obi-Wan leave the cell and Dooku.

Anakin: I dont know about you, but I could use some rest.

Obi-Wan: Remember, Anakin, this could still be a trap.

Anakin: Youre not worried about Dooku, are you?

Obi-Wan: No, Im worried about these pirates.

Random Pirate: Jedi! Now that your business is completed, we invite you to join us in the grand hall for a banquet. And a true Weequay banquet is not to be missed.


HONDOS BANQUET

Obi-Wan: No question, they have Dooku. Send the ransom.

Mace (Comlink): Hes being securely held?

Obi-Wan: And very cranky about it.

Mace (Comlink): Good. Senator Kharrus and Representative Binks will be dispatched immediately.

They end the call.

Hondo: Now, can I persuade you to join us for a drink? Its a tradition, in the name of friendship.

Obi-Wan: Alright, but nothing too strong. Hes flying.

Hondo: Bring our guests some refreshments.

The server puts a little something in their drinks.

Hondo: To a successful transaction.

Obi-Wan: To powerful pirates and new friends of the Republic.

Hondo: Enjoy your evening, gentlemen.

They drink their drinks.

Anakin: I still dont get it.

Obi-Wan: Get what?

Anakin: How a bunch of drunken pirates managed to catch Dooku when we couldnt.

Obi-Wan: Maybe theres a lesson to be learned here.

Anakin: I still dont get it.

Obi-Wan: Its to remind us to be humble and never too proud, to accept a gift when it comes our way.

Anakin: Well, to unexpected gifts, then.

Obi-Wan: Hear, hear.



Ep 12 - The Gungan General

Narrator: Fail with honor rather than succeed by fraud. Dooku held for ransom! After escaping nature by Jedi Knights Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi, the villainous Count Dooku fell into the clutches of pirates led by the brigand Hondo Ohnaka. Eager to get custody of Dooku, the Republic agreed to pay Hondo a hefty sum in exchange for the Sith Lord. But Anakin and Obi-Wan had not counted on the treacherous cunning of Ohnaka and his band


DOOKUS CELL

Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi wake up tied up.

Anakin Skywalker: Master? What happened?

Obi-Wan Kenobi: Well, I guess that pirate brew is stronger than we thought.

Anakin: I only took a sip.

Obi-Wan: We were drugged, obviously.

Anakin: Why would they risk losing the ransom?

Obi-Wan: The deal appears to have changed. They must be trying to triple their payday.

Count Dooku: A shrewd observation, Master Kenobi.

They realize Dooku is tied up as well.

Anakin: Oh, great, its you.

Dooku: I did warn you these pirates were devious. You will notice our shackles are bound together. I have tried to separate us, to no avail.

Anakin: Its bad enough to be in the same cell, but could you at least spare me the sound of your constant chatter?

Dooku: And while I hold my tongue, the two of you will devise a brilliant strategy for getting off this godforsaken planet?

Anakin: Yes!

Obi-Wan: Yes!

Dooku: Excellent.


HONDOS COMPLEX

Turk Falso: I told you kidnapping the Sith Lord was a stroke of brilliance. I can almost smell that spice now. Itll be worth twice as much to us on the black market. But I think we couldve gotten a bigger ransom from the Separatists.

Hondo Ohnaka: You fool. Sometimes I wonder why I bother to keep you around. If we tried to ransom Count Dooku off to the Separatists, they would simply send their droid armies here to wipe us out. As my sweet mother always said, Son, if one hostage is good, two are better. And three? Well, thats just good business.

Turk: How much do you think theyll fetch? Dont you worry about how much youll get your cut?

Hondo: Just see to it that the Republics ransom gets here. Once we get the ransom for the Sith, then well get the ransom for the Jedi. Thank you, mom!


HONDOS COMPLEX

Turk: The spice is on its way. Hondo asked me to go out and meet the Republic Senators and bring them here with the ransom. But I want you to intercept that ship and force it down. Be careful. I want that spice intact.

Barb Mentir: Its too risky. What about Hondo?

Turk: That nitwit couldnt kill a nuna. He depends on me for that. Ill tell him the ship was destroyed with everyone on it, including the spice. By the time he finds out the truth, well be long gone.


CHANCELLOR PALPATINES OFFICE

Kharrus (Hologram): And well be landing

Jar Jar Binks (Hologram): Hidey ho, Chancellor, mesa have a question.

Palpatine: In a moment, Representative Binks. Good work, Senator Kharrus. Im relieved youre about to arrive at the pirate stronghold safely. Captain Hondo, the leader of those brigands, will accept the ransom and turn Count Dooku over to the Jedi, and then they will bring him back with you.

Kharrus (H): Once weve landed, our signal will be strong enough to set up proper communications.

Palpatine: Thank you, Senator.

REPUBLIC SHUTTLE

Commander Stone: Senator Kharrus, Representative Binks, take your seats. We are coming in for a landing.

Pilot Mack: The last time I went on one of these random missions, I spent three weeks in a dungeon.

Kharrus: Representative Binks, stop fooling around. Were landing. Secure yourself.

Jar Jar: Mesa trying. Itsa stucken.

A ship comes behind them and starts shooting at them. It is Barb.

Mack: Were under attack.

Kharrus: Weve been betrayed.

Barb sends two missiles.

Mack: Missile closing. Bank left!

Jar Jar isnt seated, he fools around and makes Mack come out from the cockpit.

Mack: What the Jar Jar, what are you doing?

Jar Jar: Ooh! Sorry, mesa fix it.

Jar Jar presses a button and goes back in the cockpit with Mack.

Random Pilot: Mack, whats going on back there?

Mack: Sir, you must get out of the cockpit.

Theyre hit by the two missiles.

Mack: Were hit. Sir, you must leave. Get back into your seat.

Mack gets Jar Jar back in his seat.

Mack: Were going down!


DOOKUS CELL

Dooku is getting some food by making it force levitate.

Anakin: Dont you think our priorities should be escape first, eat second?

Dooku: Do control your protgs insolence so I can concentrate.

Obi-Wan: Anakin.

Anakin: What?

Obi-Wan: Control your insolence. The Count is concentrating.

Dooku gets a knife into the lock and frees them.

Dooku: Well done, if I do say so myself.

Obi-Wan: Most impressive.


REPUBLIC SHUTTLE

The ship has crashed.

Jar Jar: Mesa no see Senator Kharrus.

Random Clone: The pilots are dead

Random Clone: Sir, over here. I found the Senator.

Senator Kharrus is dead.

Jar Jar: Oh, no. He cant be dead.

Stone: Weve got to figure out a way to contact Coruscant.


FLORRUM

Barb: They crashed into Doshar Field.

Turk: Good, good. And you have the spice?

Barb: Not exactly, no. I think there are survivors. We have to call it off. Maybe we should tell Hondo.

Turk: No one tells Hondo anything! If anyone survived that crash, well take care of them. Trust me, were getting that spice.


HONDOS COMPLEX CORRIDORS

Anakin: We do know where were going, dont we?

Obi-Wan: Hush, Anakin. We do know where were going, dont we?

Dooku: Quiet. I was brought this way when I was captured. It was open then.

Anakin: Hey, I found the door key.

Dooku: This is the way to the hangar.

Obi-Wan: Yes, but are you sure its safe?

Anakin: The key works.

Obi-Wan: Is it safe?

Dooku: Of course it is.

They open the door and find some pirates.

Obi-Wan: Right.

Random Pirate: Hold it right there, Jedi.


DOOKUS CELL

Anakin: What were we thinking, following a Sith Lord?

Hondo: What to do, what to do, what to do? I dont want to kill you, per se. In fact, you seem like decent fellows. Even you, Count. This is just business. And once I get my money, we can go back to being friends. Its very simple. Now, try not to complicate things by breaking out again.

Hondo leaves them tied up once again.

Obi-Wan: We have to get out of here before the Republic arrives with the ransom.

Dooku: For once, I agree with you.


REPUBLIC SHUTTLE

Stone: Any luck repairing the homing beacon?

Random Clone: No, sir.

Jar Jar: Yousa find rest, Senator. Those with good in their heart always passen too soon.

Random Clone: Sir, with the death of Senator Kharrus, are you now in command of the mission?

Stone: Technically, no.

Random Clone: Then who is?

Stone: Representative Binks is the highest-ranking person here.

Jar Jar: We be missing you, Senator.

Random Clone: Sir, this place is dangerous. Look, those geysers are spitting out acid.

Jar Jar: These beasties dont like the geysers neither.

Stone: What is it, Sergeant?

Random Clone: How are we going to deliver the ransom to the Jedi and Count Dooku back?


DOOKUS CELL

Obi-Wan is trying to force convince the guard.

Obi-Wan: You do not want to stand guard.

Guard: I do not want to stand guard.

Obi-Wan: You want to deactivate the cell bars and go out drinking.

Guard: I want to deactivate the cell bars and go out drinking.

The Guard deactivates the cell bars and goes out drinking.

Anakin: Not bad.

Dooku: Oh, yes. Most impressive, Master Kenobi.


REPUBLIC SHUTTLE

Jar Jar: Whatsa that?

Random Clone: You think this is trouble, sir?

Stone: They could be the ones were supposed to deliver the ransom to.

Jar Jar: Or theysa the ones that be shooting us down.

The pirates, led by Turk, attack them.

Stone: Youre right, Binks. Incoming! Form a circle!

Random Clone: Theres not enough cover out here. They are cutting us off from the shuttle.

Stone: We have got to regroup.

The pirates shoot a bunch of explosives. Some smoke is created, making it hard to see.

Random Clone: Follow me. Lets hide.

Stone: Come on, men!

The pirates are left alone with the shuttle.

Random Pirate: Whered they go?

Random Pirate: I dont know. Maybe they fell in the crater.

Turk: Find the spice.

Random Pirate: Should we look for the clones in the crater?

Turk: Get back here! Once that geyser goes off, theyre broiled.


DOSHAR FIELD CRATER

Jar Jar: Dont worry. As long as those beasties are up there, were safe.

Stone: When they run, we run.

Jar Jar: See? Mesa knew it was safe since the beasties are nearby.

The geyser starts preparing to go off.

Jar Jar: Uh-oh.

They are almost broiled to death.

Jar Jar: Woah!

Stone: Come on, lets go.

They go back to the shuttle, the pirates are gone.

Random Clone: Commander, youre right. The ransoms gone.

Stone: Hmm. I suggest we stay here and wait for the Republic to send the rescue party.

Jar Jar: Wesa cant wait.

Stone: We dont have much choice.

Jar Jar: Ani and Obi are waiting for us to deliver the spicen.

Stone: Those pirates are on speeders. How are we gonna catch them?

Jar Jar: Mesa be having a idea.


HONDOS COMPLEX CORRIDORS

Obi-Wan: Hurry it up, Dooku!

Anakin: You should be more patient, Master. After all, the Count is an elderly gentleman and doesnt move like he used to.

Obi-Wan: I suppose youre right.

Dooku: I would kill you both right now if I did not have to drag your bodies.


DOSHAR FIELD

Jar Jar, Stone and the clones have gotten onto the beasties backs.

Random Clone: Look! There they are!

Jar Jar: Giddyup.

They start chasing the pirate. They get the spice back. Jar Jar is angry toward a pirate.

Stone: Let him go, sir. Weve got the spice back.


HONDOS COMPLEX

Anakin, Obi-Wan and Dooku get out of the complex.

Obi-Wan: Now we just have to get beyond that wall.

They jump and Anakin is left with Obi-Wan and Dooku, holding onto the edge of the wall.

Anakin: This is not going well.

Random Pirate: Dont let them get away!

Anakin: Youre too heavy. I cant do it. Drop Dooku!

Hondo shows up standing in front of Anakin.

Hondo: I guess this means we wont be friends.


DOSHAR FIELD

Stone: Right. Now that we have the spice, we need to find the compound. Anything to the south?

Random Clone: Nothing, sir. Who knows where that pirate stronghold is from here.

Random Clone: Well, look at that. Power lines! They must lead somewhere.

Jar Jar: Theresa power, theres be people, too.


HONDOS COMPLEX
Turk: Captain?

Hondo: Well, Turk, did the Republic arrive with my spice?

Turk: The Republic deceived us! They didnt send a ransom. They sent an army. They ambushed us in Doshar Field. I suggest we counterattack with tanks.

Hondo: Where are your men?

Turk: I was the only survivor. I think they will attack us to try and free the Jedi.

Hondo: I warned them. I didnt want to torture anyone. But now Even in a galaxy at war, you hope to find some honor.

Turk: Let me take our tanks. Ill make them pay.

Hondo: Go! Stop them before they reach the compound. I will deal with the Jedi.

Turk: Yes, Captain.


DOOKUS CELL

Obi-Wan: We have to find a way out of here before Senator Kharrus and Jar Jar arrive, or well look like fools.

Anakin: I think its time to lose the dead weight.

Obi-Wan: Anakin.

Some pirates enter the cell.

Random Pirate: Hey, you two, come with us.


DOSHAR FIELD

Jar Jar: There be some bombad clankens coming this way.

Stone: What? Bombad clankens?

Jar Jar: Mmm-hmm. Right there.

Stone: Where?

Jar Jar: There!

Stone: Wait

Jar Jar: Over there!

Stone: Oh! Youre right. Bombad clankers. Representative Binks, were going to need your services for this part of the mission.

Jar Jar: Whosa? Mesa?

Stone: Yes, sir. You are the Senate Representative. We need you to go out there and negotiate with the pirates.

Jar Jar: Mesa no liken this idea. But I think itsa what Senator Kharrus woulda dosa.

Random Clone: Hes probably gonna get himself killed.

Stone: Dont worry. Hes smarter than he looks.


HONDOS COMPLEX

Anakin and Obi-Wan are ready to be tortured.

Obi-Wan: I take it the Republic didnt arrive with the ransom.

Hondo: Your Republic obviously doesnt want the Sith Lord.

Obi-Wan: They didnt show?

Hondo: Oh, oh, they did. They did show with a huge army that they thought would be enough to get the better of me! Hondo!

Anakin: That cant be right.

Hondo: Are you calling me a liar?

Anakin: Isnt that kind of what you do for a living?

Hondo: You reject my hospitality, refuse to wait in your cell and now youre going to insult me?

Anakin: Im just saying

Obi-Wan: Anakin.

Anakin: What? He is a pirate.

Obi-Wan: Yes, but this may not be the best time for you to speak.

Anakin: But you

Obi-Wan: At all, Anakin!

They are electrocuted.


DOSHAR FIELD

Random Pirate: What are you supposed to be?

Jar Jar: Mesa Representative Binks. Mesa coming to deliver the spicen.

Random Pirate: Wheres the army Turk reported?

Random Pirate: Dont know. Lets fry this one and look around.

Random Pirate: No. If hes a Representative, he might be worth something as well. You! Representative Bink! Well take you to your Jedi friends so you can, uh, negotiate.

Jar Jar: Okey day!

On the other side of the cliff.

Random Clone: Sir, theyre taking Representative Binks hostage.

Stone: Get ready.

Back to the pirates side, Jar Jar messes up and ends up destroying the power generator.


HONDOS COMPLEX

Hondo: What happened to the power? I was having fun!

Dooku escapes, and Anakin and Obi-Wan take back their lightsabers and take Hondo hostage.


DOSHAR FIELD

Random Pirate: Hold it right there!

Random Pirate: Kill him, kill him! Hes no Representative, hes a plague!

Jar Jar: Whosa plaguea? Mesa?

Stone: I wouldnt do that if I were you.

He hands out his gun and ends the conflict.

Stone: Nice work, sir.


HONDOS COMPLEX EXTERIOR

Barb: Were leaving without the spice?

Turk: It wont be long until Hondo figures out whats happened.

Dooku force chokes Turk. He makes Turk point his blaster at Barb.

Barb: What What are you doing?

Dooku makes Turk blast Barb and kills Turk. He escapes on their ship.


HONDOS COMPLEX INTERIOR

Hondo: What chance do you really have, Jedi? Now, let me go, and I might let you live.

Anakin: Approach us, and he dies.

The pirate tanks come back.

Hondo: Looks like your forces were destroyed, Jedi.

Jar Jar gets out of the tank.

Jar Jar: Ani! Obi!

Anakin: Jar Jar?

Jar Jar: Mesa have arrived with the spicen.

Obi-Wan: Excellent, Jar Jar. Assuming the Pirates still have Count Dooku to trade.

They watch Dooku get off the planet.

Anakin: Well, that answers that question.

Hondo: So what now, Jedi? Youre going to arrest me?

Obi-Wan: No. Anakin, release him.

Anakin: What?

Obi-Wan: Captain, you have nothing we want. And since were not prisoners anymore, you have no bargaining power.

Jar Jar: What? Yousa was in bombad trouble? Mesa rescued you.

Anakin: No, Jar Jar, we werent in any trouble.

Obi-Wan: Lets leave on even terms.

Pirates and clones are menacing toward each other.

Hondo: Hold. Hold. Jedi, after everything, youre just going to walk away?

Obi-Wan: We have no quarrel with you and we seek no revenge.

Hondo: Indeed. Very honorable, Master Jedi.

Obi-Wan: Oh, Captain, you will find that Count Dooku does not share our sense of honor. And he knows where you live.

They finally leave Florrum.



Ep 13 - Jedi Crash

Greed and fear of loss are the roots that lead to the tree of evil.

The Republic fleet is on the defensive and pushed to the brink, as war rages in the much-contested outer rim territories. Chaos and fear mount as the separatist army rages an epic battle against heavily outnumbered Republic ships. In the far reaches of the quell system, Anakin Skywalker and his padawan, Ahsoka, race across the galaxy to aid Jedi knight Aayla Secura, who is in the midst of a fight for her life as the sinister droid army closes in.

Ship

Our shields are gone.

Hurry, Skywalker. We're depending on you.

Another Ship

Prepare the gunships.

Separatists

We have them now. Send in the super droids.

Ship

Commander, get out there and stop those droids.

I'm on it.

This way.

We're ready, admiral.

General, Skywalker's here.

And none too soon. We're entering the atmosphere.

Rocket droids incoming.

Those droids are boarding Aayla's ship.

Take care of that clanker. I'll be on board Aayla's cruiser.

Master, are you sure that's the wisest thing - .

Hey, kid. -

I know, I know. I'm hanging on.

This is taking too long. Destroy that cruiser.

But, sir, there are still hundreds of droids on board.

I don't care.

Roger roger.

Nice entrance, Skywalker. How do you plan to get us out of this mess?

Well, I have a ship docking in the lower hanger as we speak. -

Activate docking port. -

On it.

Hold it. Ah ha ha

We made it.

Gangway locked in, sir.

It's too late.

Master! -

Don't move the ship. -

Are you guys all right down there?

Ahsoka, we have to leave now. Hurry. Get him on the ship.

I'm going to turn on the deflector shields.

Gangway release.

You'll never be able to dock with our ship in the middle of this battle.

We had no choice, admiral. General Skywalker's condition may be critical. We must get him on board the resolute.

Are all Jedi so reckless?

Just the good ones.

The hyperdrive's been activated. -

Shut it down. -

I can't. -

General Secura, what's going on? -

We're going into hyperspace. - Detach! Detach! -

They'll take us with them. Evasive maneuvers. Plot every course along their last known trajectory. We need to finish this battle and find them.

I need you with Commander Bly up on the bridge right now.

I should stay. Commander Bly doesn't need my help. Anakin does.

You can help Anakin by getting this ship to safety. -

General Secura, we have a problem. -

What is it, commander?

In our haste to escape, the navicomputer's coordinates were inputted incorrectly. And, we're headed right for a star.

It's no use. The navigation computer is completely fried.

Shut down all power circuits to reset the coordinates.

That will cut off Anakin's life support.

I don't like it any more than you do, but it's a risk we're going to have to take.

We're switching off primary power units.

Cutting it awfully close.

Ready to shut off auxiliary power.

On three. One, two, three.

We're out of hyperspace. Resume all power. Switch the power back on. What are you waiting for? Hurry. Hurry.

We're not going to crash into the star, but we're definitely going to hit that planet.

Everyone out!

Well, we made it. And master Skywalker is still alive.

I'm just glad he wasn't awake to see that landing.

He would have been proud.

I've certainly perfected the art of demolishing ships and almost getting my master killed.

Anakin doesn't have much time. We have to find help tonight.

Okay, you and Bly go south. Rex and I will stay here with Anakin.

No, Ahsoka. In order to get help quickly, we must work together.

I can't leave him. Master, I know if I was hurt, he'd never leave me behind.

I know this is hard, Ahsoka, but Anakin has to stay behind, and we have to go now. There is nothing more we can do for him. We must do all we can to get off this planet. As a Jedi, it is your duty to do what is best for the group.

General Secura, look. We're not the only ones here on this planet. There has to be some kind of something here. If you don't mind me asking, general, where exactly are we going?

To go find the people who live on this planet.

Where are we going to find them? We have no idea where they are.

It seems to me that the people we're looking for live near giant trees.

Very perceptive, padawan.

Be strong, master, just a little bit longer. Rex will watch over you. -

It is time to go. -

Don't worry, kid. I'll take good care of him.

Captain Rex, keep your locator on. We should be back by daybreak with whoever or whatever lives on this planet.

Got it, general Secura. Hey, kid, good luck.

Come on, guys. Let's move out.

I can still sense your worry for Anakin, your attachment to him.

It's just I get so confused sometimes. It's forbidden for Jedi to form attachments, yet we are supposed to be compassionate.

It is nothing to be ashamed of, Ahsoka. I went through the same process when I was your age with my own master.

Really? You?

He was like a father to me. I realized that for the greater good, I had to let him go. Don't lose a thousand lives just to save one.

Maybe. But that doesn't mean that I can't try to save his life.

I don't see any signs of life.

Watch out!

No wonder it's deserted. It's a death trap. You'd have to be crazy to want to dodge those on a daily basis.

It looks like someone or something intelligent enough to figure out a use for the pods has dragged them away. All we have to do is follow the trail. Let's go.

General? Are you all right?

Be-Behind you.

What the Ah

Watch your left!

Cameron's dead. So are Lucky and Flesh.

We have to keep moving.

Pod central. We made it.

Hello?

What have you come here for?

We are peacekeepers. We are Jedi from the galactic Republic. Our ship crashed a few miles away, and one of us is very badly injured. We need your help.

Violence breeds violence. Jedi are no peacekeepers.

We're fighting for freedom. And freedom and peace require fear and death? We colonized this system to find solace from your wretched war. We came here to find peace. You must leave. You will only destroy what small amount of peace is left in the galaxy. You will only bring the destruction of us.

Regardless of the clone wars and our part in them, we still need your help.

I'm afraid I must do what's best for my people. We cannot help you.

Please. Can you at least give us some medical supplies? My friend is dying.

I cannot ignore a plea for help. I will send my son Wag Too to help your friend. He is a healer. But only one Jedi may go with him. The other must stay as insurance. We wouldn't want a surprise attack on our village or the kidnapping of our only healer.

Bly and I will stay. Padawan, go and help your master.

No, the clone and his blaster cannot stay. - He will go with the young one. -

I can handle it. I don't need help.

Ahsoka

Don't worry. Be mindful of your surroundings, padawan. Those creatures are still out there.

Got it. We won't be long.

Here. It will restore your energy.

Thank you. I am sure you are aware that the Jedi did not initiate the clone wars. Our only intention was to end it and restore peace to our galaxy.

What difference does it make who started the war and who only wants to end it? No side is free of fault. It takes two to fight.

But isn't liberty worth fighting for?

But is it worth killing for? Fighting for something doesn't necessarily mean you have to destroy everything in your path. Only when you lay your arms down and pursue a course of nonviolence can you make this claim to me that the Jedi are peacekeepers.

General, you need to maintain your rest.

I can't rest. Rex, they're coming. I can hear them. We must fight.

No, don't.

Fine.

Good work, little guy. Master!

Good to see you, snips. This is Wag Too. He's a healer. - He can make you well again. -

Don't you worry. I can fix you right up.

Um... Snips?

The oil from the pods will aid in the healing process. Don't worry. You'll be well in no-time.

You were right all along, master Secura.

About what? If I had stayed with Anakin, we probably wouldn't have found this village in time to save him. At least this whole ordeal is over now.

We still have to find a way off this planet.

Well, I'm sure admiral Yularen and the Republic fleet are looking for us. It shouldn't take them too long to get here.



Ep 14 - Defenders of Peace

When surrounded by war, Republic forces in retreat. While rescuing General Aayla Secura from certain defeat, Anakin Skywalker has been seriously injured. After a narrow escape, our heroes crashlanded on the remote world of Maridun. Stranded, and with no way to contact the Republic, the Jedi receive medical aid from the peaceful Lurmen colonists. But even on this tiny planet, the war threatens to follow the Jedi.

Commander Bly, we've got company. - Friendlies? - Negative, sir. A droid ship coming straight our way. Acknowledged. Get back here. - General? - Yes, commander? We've got a Separatist ship incoming. This is neutral space. It won't be neutral for long, not if the Separatists have their way. - Help me up. - Don't struggle. I'm sorry, but you're still too injured to move. What menace have you brought to our village now, Jedi? Father, you can't blame them. He's right. The Separatists don't even know we're here. And they can't know. We've got to hide. Your presence here endangers us. You must leave before your enemies find you. But you'll need our help. You can't fight them alone. We will not fight them at all. We would rather die than to kill others. You're going to surrender? - But how can you - Ahsoka, stop. If the Lurmen want to remain neutral, we won't force them into war. See to it that they leave. I must see what our new visitors want. Take it easy, sir. We'll assist you. I am General Lok Durd of the Separatist alliance. I am Tee Watt Kaa, leader of this colony. - What do - You are now under the protection of the Separatist alliance. I congratulate you on your good fortune. Thank you, but we enjoyed good fortune well before your arrival. We are a peaceful people, General. I do not condone your presence here. Then stand aside. I would like to inspect my new colony. Ransack this dung heap. Why are they tearing apart our homes? We've done nothing to them! Violence, that's what those droids are programmed for. Can't we do anything? No, and if we are discovered, all of the Lurmen will be slaughtered. We'll be okay if we make it to the tall grasses. There is no evidence of any weapons or Republic contraband, General. In the future, we may conduct more periodic searches like this one in order to maintain security. Because we are such an obvious threat to you. We'll offer no resistance. Your species is smarter than you appear. Father, are you okay? At least the Jedi escaped. Yes, but they nearly brought harm to our entire village. But now, thanks to you, we're safe to grovel before every petty tyrant who enters our system. You would mock our very way of life? I have just ensured we will have peace. Yes, but for the moment, and at what price? Are you not concerned about the Jedi at all? I have no quarrel with the Jedi, but we cannot help them without being drawn into their war. Tub, track the Jedi. Follow them and make sure they get off world. You know, I can't figure those villagers not wanting to fight. No pride I guess. I call it no courage. Sometimes it takes courage to stick to one's beliefs, young padawan, as any Jedi well knows. We need to find a ship, and I think the only one around here belongs to the Separatists. We know they have a landing ship. They might have a shuttle. Sir, you talking about stealing from one of the clankers? - Count me in. - We need to find them first. I think we just did. Blast it! Jam its signal! After it! I'm fine. Just go! - Which way did it go? - This way. Hurry! We can't catch it if it gets out in the open. - I wonder where it was headed. - Maybe we can see them from up there. I hope you're feeling better, Master, 'cause look what we found. I'm getting stronger all the time, snips. But I'm not sure I'm ready for that. That shuttle's our ticket off this rock. It's not gonna be easy, sir. There don't seem to be any flaws in their security line. Apparently, the Separatists have a new toy. - See if you can get a closer look. - Yes, sir. I'll go with you, Commander. Is the defoliator capsule ready? Today is a grand day for the Separatist cause. We test a new weapon of my own design which is capable of catastrophic destruction, a weapon which will destroy organic matter but leave machines unharmed. But first, we need two volunteers. The volunteers are you and you. - Me? - Me? Go to that ridge. Roger, roger. Stay down, boys. Count Dooku, I have located a world in which we can test my Excuse me, our new weapon. I hope it turns out to be worth the expense. You may proceed. Yes, my Lord. Ready? Roger, roger. Aim. Fire! Should we take cover? No, idiot. That is not even gonna hit us. That's some toy It took out every living thing. As you can see, the landscape has been destroyed, and the droids are undamaged. Impressive, but now, we need to know how effective this weapon will be against living creatures. Of course. I specifically chose this planet because it is inhabited. The colonists will make excellent test subjects. Proceed, then. I eagerly await the results. Prepare to move out! Where are they off to now? They must be going back to the Lurmen village. There's nothing else in that direction. Those villagers won't stand a chance. First we'll take out the droids' communication station. After we get a shuttle, we'll go back and help them. But Tee Watt Kaa said he doesn't need our help. There's a difference between pulling innocents into a war and leaving them to extinction. Tell Wag Too that the Separatists are returning. Hey, what was that? Get to the door. I'll handle the droids. Check the exterior. We cannot have any surprises for the General. check out? What the The Separatists are on the march. They're returning to our village. They did not attack us before. There's no reason to think they will this time. Father, they wouldn't be coming back here unless they intended to do us harm. This is war! But not our war. We've done nothing to provoke them, and we will not. That is their way. So we will just lay down and be slaughtered? Father, even if we don't fight the Separatists, we must defend ourselves! Mounting a defense is still engaging in battle. If we sacrifice our beliefs, we're no better than they are. Our philosophy has helped us to survive for generations, and we will not change our morals now or ever. - Shield generator, sir. - Let's take 'em with us. Everyone, please, please listen. The Separatists will be here in moments. What are you doing here? I told you not to return. I'm afraid the Separatists don't care whether you're in the war or not. We need to get you to safety before they arrive. We will not abandon our homes. But they've got a new weapon. It'll burn this place to a crisp. Is this what all of you really want? If it is our destiny to be destroyed in your war, so be it. Droids inbound. We've got eight minutes tops. Come on, guys. Let's get these shield generators in place! When Count Dooku sees how successful my weapon is against civilian targets, I will no doubt be promoted to a more Substantial position within the alliance. Right. Well, the villagers appear to have put some pods together - in a barrier around the village. - Pods? How quaint. Jedi? What are they doing out here? Halt! Pray stop what you're doing. Stop building that wall. - I did not ask you to defend us. - This battle is inevitable. You can stand by your beliefs, but let us stand by ours. Thank you for what you're trying to do. I'm sorry, but I cannot help. My father is very Strong willed and set in tradition. Many others agree with me, but we were raised under a very strict code. We must respect it, even if we don't agree. - They're holding position. - They're not going to charge us, not if they can hit us from long range first. But if we can withstand that weapon, we'll draw them in. Prepare to fire! Good-bye, Jedi. Fire! Incoming! Power the shields! Now they'll have to get their hands dirty and meet us face-to-face. Squad one, prepare to charge. Prepare to charge. Charge! That's a lot of clankers. We got to stop them before they get through that shield. Five, four, three, two, one, zero. Sir, the first squad has been destroyed. Squad two and three, attack! - That wasn't so tough. - That was just the first wave. Snips, get back to the village! I'll take care of the new weapon. That's it. We have to retreat! Take cover. They've breached the shield! They're taking out the shield generators. We have to do something. Their shield is down. Launch another shell. Sir, there's a Jedi heading right for us. Then blast him, you idiot! No survivors. Wag Too, what are you doing? - We're going to help. - I forbid this. What more would you have them do before we are allowed to defend ourselves? - But - We have to do this. Help! I'll be defoliated! There goes my promotion. The weapon has been disabled. Copy that, General. - Thank you, Wag Too. - Thank you. Our village would certainly have been destroyed without your protection. Father, I was just offering the Jedi our thanks. Perhaps we do owe you thanks, but I still wonder, at what cost? Why am I always the lucky one? As if freezing our behinds off on this rock weren't bad enough. What was that? Anakin and I have a full scale war on our hands since chairman Cho refuses to be reasonnable. They are savages. Trespassers! We must broker a peace between the Pantaurens and the creatures who call this place home. Easier said than done.



Ep 15 - Trespass

Narrator: Arrogance diminishes wisdom. Republic outpost overrun! The Jedi have lost all contact with the clone security force stationed on the bleak snow-covered planet of Orto Plutonia. Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker, accompanied by dignitaries from the nearby moon of Pantora, are sent to investigate the disappearance of the clone troopers on the desolate and forbidding landscape.


ORTO PLUTONIA

The Republic forces arrive on the planet.

Obi-Wan Kenobi: And this is the planets tropical zone.

Anakin Skywalker: Its not Tatooine, thats for sure. Captain Rex! Have your men survey the area. Place as many sensor beacons as you can before dark.

Captain Rex: Right away, sir. Unload that gear! Lets move!

Obi-Wan: Why would the Republic want an outpost way out here? 

Anakin: The Chairman of Orto Plutonia requested it? But why?

Chairman Chi Cho and Senator Riyo Chuchi arrive.

Chi Cho: General Kenobi.

Obi-Wan: Chairman Cho, Senator Chuchi. I suggest you wait here until we can secure the area.

Cho: I respect your judgment, General Kenobi, but I will go where I choose. This is sovereign Pantora territory.

Anakin: I thought this planet was uninhabited, and therefore its not aligned.

Cho: Our moon of Pantora is the only civilization in this system. Im the one who asked the Senate to protect this planet. This wasteland belongs to us.

Obi-Wan: With all due respect, Chairman, this is for the Senate to decide, not us.

Cho: Ah, but the Jedi report to the Senate, which is Senator Chuchi of Pantora.

Riyo Chuchi: Technically speaking, Master Jedi, the Chairman is correct. Since the planet is uninhabited, the moon of Pantora reserves the right to continue as its protectorate.

Obi-Wan: Point taken, Senator. Anakin, stay here with the Senator and the droids while we secure the base.


GLID STATION INTERIOR

They find helmets of dead clones posted on spikes.

Rex: I dont get it.

Cho: It must be Separatists.

Obi-Wan: Im not sure.


GLID STATION EXTERIOR

C-3PO: Might we go inside, Master Anakin? R2 would like to get out of the cold.

Anakin: Well go inside as soon as Obi-Wan signals that its safe.


GLID STATION INTERIOR

Cho: Do you think the Separatists are building a forward base to attack Pantora?

Obi-Wan: I dont think were dealing with Separatists. These computers havent been touched.

Rex: Sir! Our scouts have spotted a droid base on the other side of the ice ridge.


SEPARATIST OUTPOST EXTERIOR

They arrive and find droid heads posted on spikes as well.

Anakin: Id say whoever attacked our base took out the droids, also.

Obi-Wan: Rex, help Anakin place the sensor beacons. You four, come with me.

Rex: Yes, General. Lets go.


SEPARATIST OUTPOST INTERIOR

Rex: Did you find anything?

Anakin: I found some large footprints. Have one of your men make a cast.

They come back to Obi-Wan.

Anakin: Sensors are in place.

Obi-Wan: I think I found something.

The hologram doesnt work.

Obi-Wan: Blast it!

Anakin hits it and it works. Here is the footage.

Random Droid: Six-eight-five to command. There are too many of them! Theyve overrun the base! We need reinforcements!

The droid on the hologram is killed.

Anakin: What was that?

Obi-Wan: Whatever it was, its a good warrior. 


GLID STATION

Riyo: The droids log indicates they were investigating the southern canyon.

Cho: Sounds like a good place to start. I want the weapons system back online and the shields operational. Theres no telling what the Separatists have planned.

Riyo: Chairman, what makes you so certain the Separatists are behind this attack?

Cho: Look around, Senator. Isnt this carnage proof enough?

Riyo: I know, but there are no dead droids here, no blast marks. The clones injuries were not consistent with what

Cho: So, youre an expert on war now, are you, Senator?

Riyo: No, Chairman. No, I only

Cho: Let me tell you something, Senator. I have led our people since before you were born. Ive seen a hundred planets rise and fall through force of arms. If its not the Separatists out there, then its a malevolent and aggressive enemy nonetheless, and I will not let whoever it is jeopardize the security of the people of Pantora.

Riyo: But if the Jedi discover that the Separatists arent behind this, then perhaps there is a peaceful resolution.

Cho: Senator, I am willing to fight and die for my people. Its time to ask yourself if you are brave enough to do the same.


SEPARATIST OUTPOST EXTERIOR

Obi-Wan: Theres some kind of reflection up there. Do you see it?

Anakin: Yep

Obi-Wan: Well, they know were coming. Lets go.


TALZ VILLAGE

Anakin and Obi-Wan have arrived.

Obi-Wan: Steady, Anakin. Theyre only curious. Lets not provoke them as the droids and our troops must have done.

Anakin: Too bad we didnt bring 3PO along. How do you plan on communicating with these things?

Obi-Wan: Patience. Maybe theyre smarter than we are.

The Talz Leader starts talking in a language they dont understand.

Anakin: Well? Say something.

Obi-Wan: Just shut up. 

They enter the hut of the Leader.

Obi-Wan: We come to you in peace. We will not bring harm.

Anakin: Peace.

Obi-Wan: Right.


GLID STATION

Rex: Glad you made it back, sir. Its getting nasty out there.

Anakin: You dont know the half of it.

Cho: What did you find?

Obi-Wan: It seems weve stumbled onto an inhabited planet.

Cho: Impossible. Our explorers have spent much time here over the long history of Pantora. No one lives here. Theyre trespassers.

Obi-Wan: With respect, Chairman Cho, these creatures, the Talz, arent advanced enough to master space travel. I think they may have been here longer than Pantora.

Cho: Whoever they are, they belong to us. This whole system belongs to us.

Riyo: Your Majesty, if there are life forms here, then the Senate must decide jurisdiction.

Cho: Look at what theyve done. Theyve slaughtered your troops.

Obi-Wan: They only want to be left alone. The droids attacked them, and Im afraid our outpost got caught in the middle.

Cho: They must be subdued. Theyre dangerous. Captain Rex, prepare your troops for battle.

Anakin: We promised their chief there would be no retaliation.

Obi-Wan: Weve arranged a meeting between their high council and you and the Senator. They want peace.

Anakin: We cant send troopers. Theyll think we lied.

Cho: These creatures are little more than animals. You cant lie to an animal. They cant be trusted.

Riyo: But, Your Majesty

Cho: No! It is obvious these creatures are not covered by the Convention of Civilised Systems. Their Council has no say in the matter.

Riyo: If the Jedi are able to communicate with them, their status is in doubt.

Cho: Do you stand against your Chairman, Senator?

Riyo: Of course not, Your Majesty.

Obi-Wan: If we are going to meet with Thi-Sen and his council at the arranged time, we will have to leave now.

Rex: Sir, the gunships cant take off in this storm. We dont have enough bikes for the entire platoon.

Anakin: Have the rest of the men standby here. No matter what the Chairman thinks, were not going to war.


TALZ VILLAGE

Cho: Captain! Put your men on that ice ridge. We will attack as soon as the savages arrive.

Obi-Wan: There will be no attack, Chairman.

Cho: You will do as I command! This planet is under my jurisdiction!

Obi-Wan: Nothing is under your control, Chairman. The Talz are already here. Their scouts have been following us for some time. It seems Thi-Shen doesnt trust you any more than you trust him.

Anakin: Rex, tell your men to stand down. Stay here, and dont do anything to provoke them.

Rex: Yes, sir.

They arrive in the village. Thi-Sen is waiting for them.

Obi-Wan: Your Highness. 

Anakin: We have returned, as promised. 

C-3PO starts discussing with Thi-Sen.

Cho: These savages have no rights here.

3PO: Chieftain Thi-Sen welcomes you to his home and hopes you come in peace. He wishes to be good neighbors, but he does not wish you to remain on his planet.

Cho: Listen, droid, translate everything I say, and exactly as I say it.

Riyo: Would you like me to represent Pantora in this matter?

Cho: Not on your life, Senator. There will be no diplomacy this time. Listen here, you savage. This world belongs to the moon of Pantora, and as the Supreme Chairman and Exalted Ruler of Pantora, you will not command me to leave this planet, or do anything else.

Riyo: Your Majesty, we cant.

Cho: Droid! Tell him.

3PO: Oh, dear.

Obi-Wan: I recommend a less confrontational discussion. The Talz are easily provoked.

Thi-Sen is getting angry.

Anakin: That didnt go over very well.

Obi-Wan: Chairman, I promised the Talz that we would leave them in peace.

Cho: This is now an internal affair of Pantora.

3PO: The great Thi-Sen, Son of Suns, asks again that you leave, or it will mean war.

Cho: Then war it is.

They go back to Rex and the clones.

Cho: Troopers, mount up and follow me.

Rex: Whats up, General?

Anakin: Youre going to have to stay with the Chairman until we can work things out. Protect him at all costs.

Rex: Mount up! Were moving out!

Anakin: Senator, you know a preemptive strike is illegal. Isnt there anything you can do to stop it?

Riyo: Im afraid not. He has proclaimed this conflict an internal affair.

Obi-Wan: You could petition the Jedi Council for an intervention.

Riyo: You mean without his authorization?

Anakin: There must be someone on your moon who could approve it.

Riyo: The Speaker of the Assembly. He has the power.


ORTO PLUTONIA PLAINS

Cho: Here they are! Fire when youre in range!

Rex: Sir, with all due respect, were only here to protect you.

Some Talz appear.

Rex: Ambush!

Cho: Its a trap! Kill them!

A battle starts between the clones and the Talz.

Random Pantoran: Chairman, get down!

The Talz are getting the upper hand.

Rex: Weve got to hold out! Fall back! First squad, cover the retreat!

Cho: Retreat? We cant retreat from these animals!

Chairman Cho gets a spike in his chest.

Cho: Savages.


REPUBLIC GUNSHIP

Speaker of Assembly (Hologram): Senator Chuchi, youre given the authority to negotiate a peaceful settlement between the sovereign planet of Pantora and the Talz.

Obi-Wan: It is decided then.

Anakin: Pilot, lets get moving.

They move to the Talz village.

Obi-Wan: Senator, now that you have the authority, how do you plan on making peace with the Talz?

Riyo: Actually, Master Jedi, since you are far more experienced, I was hoping that you could negotiate on Pantoras behalf.

Obi-Wan: Im afraid thats not possible, Senator.

Riyo: But I dont understand. The Jedi serve the Senate. I must order you

Obi-Wan: Senator, it is your people the Talz are at war with. If the violence is to stop, it is you who must represent your people.


ORTO PLUTONIA PLAINS

They arrive at the battle. The Pantorna have almost lost.

Rex: Good to see you, sir.

Anakin: You okay, Rex?

Rex: Its just a scratch.

Anakin: Whats going on?

Rex: Were in quite a mess, sir. Eleven dead, the rest wounded, including the Chairman.

Riyo: Chairman, can you hear me?

Cho: Senator. Good. You must avenge me. As my final command as Chairman of Pantora, I order you to destroy the Talz.

Riyo: Im afraid I cannot do that Chairman. The Pantoran Assembly has called you out of order. I am to negotiate peace.

Cho: No. Impossible! Peace? Never! I died for our people.

Chairman Choe dies.

Obi-Wan: Senator, now is the time.

Riyo: Protocol droid, come with me.

Anakin: 3PO, get going.

3PO: Yes, Master Ani.

Riyo meets Thi-Sen.

Riyo: Droid, translate for me.

3PO: Yes, Mistress.

Riyo: To die for ones people is a great sacrifice. To live for ones people, an even greater sacrifice. I choose to live for my people. What do you choose?

3PO: He chooses to live as well.

Riyo: We will leave Orto Plutonia under the watchful eyes of the Talz from this day forth, and recognize your sovereignty as a free and equal people.

She comes back to the troops.

Obi-Wan: Well done, Senator.

Anakin: Yes. Most impressive.

Riyo: Thank you, Master Jedi.

Obi-Wan: Now that you have created peace between your people and the Talz, remember one crucial thing.

Riyo: Yes, Master Kenobi?

Obi-Wan: Make it last, Senator. Make it last. And be an example to others, so not only this war, but every war waged may come to an end as well.

Riyo: I will. I promise you.

They leave Orto Plutonia.



Ep 16 - The Hidden Enemy

Narrator: A planet under siege! Separatist forces mercilessly batter the beautiful and elegant world of Christophsis. Unable to defend themselves any longer, the people of Christophsis call on the Jedi for assistance. Hoping to save lives and prevent further destruction, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker plan a daring ambush which could turn the tide in the fight for this crucial star system.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Anakin, how are you doing over there?
Anakin Skywalker: We're set. I've got some guys here that are anxious to get going.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Glad to hear it.
Commander Cody: We're back, general.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Good. The show is about to begin.
Commander Cody: How's that cannon coming, boys?
Chopper: We'll have this one back in business in no time, sir.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: The droids are advancing.
Chopper: I'm seeing a full battalion coming right on schedule. Tanks! They brought tanks. A little closer. They're splitting up.
Commander Cody: What?
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Something's gone wrong. Prepare all troops for-- Abort the mission!
Chopper: Our position's been compromised.
Anakin Skywalker: Obi-Wan, what's going on?
Obi-Wan Kenobi: We're cut off. The droids are onto us.
Anakin Skywalker: Gunship, come in. Hawk, we need an e-vac in the south tower.
Hawk: Roger that, sir. We're coming.
Captain Rex: South tower? We're in the north.
Anakin Skywalker: Not for long. Rex, fire your cables.
Battle Droid: Blast them!
Anakin Skywalker: This way is clear.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: How did you get over here?
Anakin Skywalker: I improvised. Now what?
Captain Rex: Maybe this tactical droid will tell us how they knew our plan.
Tactical droid: The Republic army is in the north and south towers: level 46.
Captain Rex: It just doesn't make sense. Blast!
Anakin Skywalker: Well, at least we're not the only ones having a bad day.
Captain Rex: Generals, they had all our intel.
Anakin Skywalker: That would explain the ambush. How could we have left ourselves so vulnerable to a security breach?
Obi-Wan Kenobi: I don't think we did.
Anakin Skywalker: You think someone-- infiltrated our defenses?
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Possibly. It'd have to be someone cunning and resourceful enough to gain access to all our plans.
Anakin Skywalker: But that's still wouldn't explain how they got our intel.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: No. You're right. They wouldn't act alone. They'd have someone working with them.
Commander Cody: A spy, sir? But who would want to betray our troops to the Seppies?
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Excellent question, Commander. Perhaps it's time we made a visit behind enemy lines. I think we'll find our answers there.
Commander Cody: We'll get right on it.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: No, Captain. I need you here to find the security breach.
Commander Cody: You can count on us, sir.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: One more thing: this mission is extremely confidential. The spy could be anyone. Let no one know of our mission.
Captain Rex: Understood, sir.
Commander Cody: Someone left this comlink on. Someone has been listening to everything we said.
Captain Rex: Hey! Stop!
Commander Cody: Who's that? I'll follow him. You take the west corridor.
Captain Rex: I'm on it. He must have gone in the mess hall.
Commander Cody: We've got a big problem.
Captain Rex: Yeah. The only people in here are brothers. One of us? Great, but which one?
Commander Cody: We'll have to wait for his next move. Keep this to ourselves.
Captain Rex: Better contact the Jedi.
Commander Cody: I'm on it.
Battle Droid: Don't shoot. Just keep their communications jammed.
Battle Droids: Roger, roger.
Commander Cody: We can't reach General Kenobi. Whoever it is has blocked our communications. We're gonna have to find this guy ourselves.
Captain Rex: R2, come over here and plug in.
Commander Cody: What are you doing?
Captain Rex: The guard got his messages out there somehow. We just got to find them.
Commander Cody: What do you think? He just sat down and wrote a note?
Captain Rex: You have to start somewhere.
Anakin Skywalker: We appear to have picked up some friends.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Indeed. In fact, I believe the number of eyes watching us has been steadily growing.
Anakin Skywalker: Great. Perhaps this means our adversary has learned about our mission.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Perhaps it does.
Anakin Skywalker: Of course, nobody's tried to stop us yet.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Also true.
Anakin Skywalker: They want us to get to the Separatist headquarters, which means this is a trap.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: I imagine it is.
Anakin SKywalker: Well, that's unfortunate For them.
Captain Rex: R2's found something.
Commander Cody: What is it? Is it the traitor?
Captain Rex: Maybe.
Commander Cody: What is he looking for?
Captain Rex: Wavelength interference, weak frequencies, spotty, irregular. See, how it shows up every few days then disappears? Day to day, you wouldn't notice it.
Commander Cody: What?
Captain Rex: It's the pattern. The band's only coming off one terminal in the whole base. Check it out.
Commander Cody: Hmm. Slick's barracks. Only Slick's men would have access to that terminal.
Captain Rex: Yeah. Slick's not gonna like that.
Commander Cody: No, he's not. But if one of his men is giving away our intel, we have to find him and sort this out.
Anakin Skywalker: No guards, no barricades, you'd think the Separatist headquarters would be better protected.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: But clearly, keeping us out is not what they intend.
Slick: No way. My guys are the best. No way they're capable of something like this.
Chopper: Something like what?
Slick: You called them here?
Captain Rex: Of course we did. We're getting to the bottom of this Now.
Slick: Look, let me have a few minutes with them first. It's gonna hit them hard. They trust each other, and if one of our own betrayed us I don't think that's necessary.
Commander Cody: Your men are tough, right? Take a seat, gentlemen. We have a turncoat in our midst, and we think it's one of you.
Anakin Skywalker: So this is the belly of the beast.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Ventress. And here I thought this mission would be unpleasant.
Asajj Ventress: The pleasure's all mine, my dear Obi-Wan. I've missed you.
Jester: I don't know, I was doing the things I always do after a mission.
Captain Rex: Things like what?
Jester: I'm sorry, sir. I'm just a little nervous. You're my C.O.
Captain Rex: The way I figure it, you tell the truth, you got nothing to be nervous about.
Punch: Jester is telling the truth. He cleans his weapon after every mission. First thing, every time. He's kind of obsessed that way.
Commander Cody: Is that right? You were cleaning your weapon?
Jester: Yes, sir.
Commander Cody: Go on the computer while you were in here?
Jester: No, sir. I didn't even power it up.
Commander Cody: You can check. Show me your weapon. Yep, freshly scrubbed.
Jester: The rag's over there in the corner.
Commander Cody: Good man. You. You were cleaning your weapon too?
Punch: No, I was hungry. I went back to the mess. Right away?
Captain Rex: Anyone with you?
Punch: Sketch, sir.
Sketch: We got to the mess at the same time, got our grub, and sat together.
Captain Rex: Anyone else in the mess able to confirm what you two are saying?
Sketch: Lots of guys there. Ask any of them.
Captain Rex: We will.
Slick: Captain, give me a moment with them.
Gus: No, it's okay, Sarge. I got nothing to hide. I was in the infirmary. Got banged up pretty good by one of those clankers. A med droid was fixing me up. Doc's got all the records there if you want to check.
Captain Rex: So, Chopper, old boy, what's your alibi?
Chopper: I was in the mess hall.
Sketch: No, you weren't! I mean, you.
Commander Cody: If you know something, kid, you should speak up.
Sketch: Chopper came in a lot later. After everyone else.
Asajj Ventress: My loyal informant let me know you were coming.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Well, then, we thank you for your hospitality.
Captain Rex: Where were you before you went to the mess, Chopper?
Chopper: Nowhere. Walking around.
Commander Cody: Son, you know we'll need a better answer than that.
Chopper: I was hiding at the south exit. I didn't want anyone to see me string these together.
Captain Rex: Battle droid fingers.
Chopper: I just I just wanted something back. I guess I felt like they owed me.
Gus: I always knew there was something deficient about you.
Slick: This isn't good, Chopper. Lying about where you were, taking forbidden items from a battlefield.
Chopper: I know. I put up with the attitude 'cause you have skill.
Slick: But if you could break these rules, your whole character's in question here.
Chopper: Wait, no! Hang on. I'm no spy!
Slick: Chopper, we're all brothers. But how can we trust anything you say now?
Chopper: No, sir, I'm telling you, I did not--
Slick: It's okay. We'll get you a proper investigation. You don't have to say anything till the Jedi come back and talk to you.
Chopper: Maybe you should talk, sir. Tell them where you went. I was at the south exit, remember? I saw you go in go in, sir. I saw you.
Slick: Chopper, I have been patient.
Chopper: Everyone else turned right toward the barracks and the mess. You turned left, toward the command center. Where were you going, sir?
Commander Cody: Obviously, the kid feels cornered. Sergeant, what did you mean, "Till the Jedi come back"? How did you know the Jedi were gone?
Slick: I really wish you hadn't noticed that, sir.
Captain Rex: It's Slick? Slick's the traitor?
Commander Cody: I've got someone by the gunships. That's our Slick. Now that he's exposed, he has to get out of this base.
Captain Rex: There's no escape now, you piece of rankweed! Move. Move!
Commander Cody: He took out our weapons depot.
Captain Rex: He knew where we'd look. He's not trying to escape.
Commander Cody: He knows all our moves before we even make them.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Give up, Ventress!
Asajj Ventress: I am all yours, Obi-Wan. You've served your purpose.
Anakin Skywalker: We have to get back. Now!
Asajj Ventress: It's already too late. So hard to know whom to trust these days, isn't it?
Anakin Skywalker: What's the plan, Master?
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Bringing us here was a mistake, my sweet. You've overestimated your abilities.
Asajj Ventress: Really? Come and get me, boys!
Obi-Wan Kenobi: You didn't tell us you were bringing friends.
Asajj Ventress: Poor Obi-Wan. You've been betrayed. And now we're about to take control of this world.
Captain Rex: How do we get this guy?
Gus: Sir. Slick ran into the command center.
Commander Cody: You guys stay here. Seal the perimeter.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Anakin!
Asajj Ventress: Prepare to march on the city. Have General Loathesome delay the Jedi as long as possible. I will need time to execute the next part of my Master's plan.
Tactical droid #2: Yes, Mistress.
Commander Cody: Pretend you're Slick. What's in your head?
Captain Rex: My cover's blown, it's time to go, but I decide not to use a ship because it's too obvious.
Commander Cody: The lockdown.
Captain Rex: He wants to get around the lockdown. He's blinded us by taking out the power. He could disable the entire security system.
Commander Cody: Yeah. But he knows we'd expect him to do that.
Captain Rex: Or does he? Yeah, I see what you're getting at.
Commander Cody: Go to the south exit.
Captain Rex: What are you gonna do?
Commander Cody: I'll stay here, get the power back up. That'll help.
Captain Rex: Got it.
Commander Cody: Hey, there, Slick. Gun's empty.
Captain Rex: You know what's funny, traitor? We knew you'd never take a chance on the exits while they were blocked.
Slick: I'd stay here to open them myself first. Just like you.
Captain Rex: Don't do a job till you've guaranteed the best odds, right?
Slick: You knew I was here.
Captain Rex: Of course we knew. You think we wouldn't have a plan?
Slick: I'm not the traitor. You are! All of you just blindly following orders, for what? At least I got something out of all this suffering.
Captain Rex: I bet you sold out your brothers for some real shiny coin. Huh?
Slick: Yes, she offered me money. But she offered me something more important. Something you wouldn't understand. Freedom!
Captain Rex: I think freedom's gonna have to wait, kid.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Slick? It was you?
Captain Rex: He gave us a bit of a chase, sir. You couldn't be a greater disappointment.
Anakin Skywalker: How could you do this to your brothers?
Slick: Only a Jedi would ask that. It's the Jedi who keep my brothers enslaved. We do your bidding. We serve at your whim. I just wanted something more.
Captain Rex: And all you had to do to get it was put the rest of us all at risk.
Slick: I love my brothers. You're too blind to see it, but I was striking the blow for all clones.
Commander Cody: If you loved your brothers, you wouldn't have put them at risk.
Captain Rex: You betrayed everyone of us.
Commander Cody: Take him to lockup.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Were you able to salvage anything from the weapons depot?
Captain Rex: Slick pretty much scorched the whole thing. That seemed to be what he was going for all along.
Commander Cody: We managed to save the heavy cannons, though.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: That's good, 'cause there are about?
Anakin Skywalker: The fight goes on, gentlemen.
[End of The Hidden Enemy]



Ep 17 - Blue Shadow Virus

Narrator: Fear is a disease, hope is its only cure. Battle droids on Naboo! As the Separatist rebellion rages through the galaxy, even peaceful planets are threatened. Following the discovery of Separatist droids wandering the grassy wasteland, Naboo is once again on high alert. Fearing their home is facing another invasion, Senator Amidala and Representative Binks race to Naboo to access the situation. Meanwhile, near the Gungan swamplands, an even graver threat is about to be discovered.


THEED HANGAR

Padm Amidala: We came as soon as we could, my Lady. Have you found any more droids?

Neeyutnee: Only the three. But you can be sure they arent tourists. I need you to convince the Senate or the Jedi Council or whoever is in charge of this terrible war that we are threatened.

Padm: Theyll need more proof. Finding a couple of battle droids will not be enough.

Random Person (Comlink): Captain Typho, the battle droid is ready for analysis.

They move to the place where the battle droid is located.

Padm: Have you been able to retrieve any information?

Neeyutnee: Unfortunately, the Naboo security who discovered them prefer to shoot first and retrieve data later.

Padm: If they were found in the grasslands, whered they pick up all this mud?

Captain Typho: Add that to our very long list of questions.

A slug beetle comes out of the battle droid.

Jar Jar Binks: Yummy-yummy.

A medical droid starts opening the tactical droids memory.

Padm: Im getting a bad feeling about this.

C-3PO: With your permission, Senator Padm, I would like to shut down before I get sensory overload.

Padm: Permission denied.

3PO: Denied?

Padm: 3PO, you may be able to get some information out of him.

Tactical Droid: Cannot see. Where am I?

3PO: You are in very good hands on board a Separatist ship. Count Dooku himself intends to reward you for your bravery.

Droid: Bravery?

3PO: For your assignment on Naboo. Do try to activate whats left of your memory. We all want to hear your tale of medical heroics.

Droid: Virus.

3PO: Yes, the virus. You do remember. Please continue.

Droid: A small amount leaked out. Must contain. Naboo cannot know. Lab must remain secret.

3PO: A secret lab on Naboo? Where? You must

Droid: It is a secret. This is no Separatist ship.

Typho: Unless you want to become a box of spare parts, youll tell us where that lab is.

Droid: The lab is secret.

Padm: Look out!

Some shelves fall on them because of Jar Jars hunger.

Typho: Well never get any information out of him now.

Jar Jar: Meesa sorry. It was an accident.

Padm: Is this what youre after?

Padm shows the slug beetle.

Jar Jar: Meesa love him. Hes a very, very good tongue grabbing. Yousa finden in one placen.

Padm: Where?

Jar Jar: In the mud under the perlote tree.

Padm: Like the mud on this droid. The eastern swamps. I think Jar Jar just found out the location of that lab.


THEED PALACE
Typho: Theyre planning an attack on Naboo. Its the only explanation.

Yoda (Hologram): Delicate, the situation is. Two Jedi, we will send.

Padm: May I recommend General Kenobi and General Skywalker? Relations with the Gungans are a little tense right now, but they trust General Kenobi like one of their own.

Yoda (H): Send them, we will.

They end the hologram.

Padm: I want as much information as possible before the Jedi arrive. See if you and 3PO can download any of the other battle droids memory. Im going to find that lab.

Typho: Are you sure thats wise?

Padm: Come on, Jar Jar.


GRASSLANDS

Gungan Farmer Peppi Bow is taking her Shaaks to drink the water of the river when a few of her Shaaks die suddenly. She realises it is poisoned.

Peppi Bow: Back! That water gone poodoo. This is muy bad.

Padm and Jar Jar arrive on the scene

Jar Jar: This is bombad. Whatsa happen to them?

Padm: Its the plague. Were definitely getting close.

Peppi in fear attacks them.

Peppi: Whosa are you?

Jar Jar: What you doing?

Peppi: Why yousa here?

She takes off the helmet of Jar Jars hazmat suit.

Jar Jar: Whatsa yousa thinkin?

Padm points a blaster at her.

Padm: Dont move. I dont want to hurt you. Jar Jar, put your helmet back on.

Peppi: Yousa okeyday. Its not in the air, its in the water.

Padm takes off her helmet.

Padm: Who are you?

Peppi: Meesa Peppi Bow.

Padm: We think the virus that made your animals sick came from the perlote trees.

Peppi: Yousa follow this river, yousa finda yousa perlote. Meesa take you.

Padm: No, Peppi, you stay here. Youll be going home soon, I promise. Ill send some soldiers to pick you up and take you back to Theed.


EASTERN SWAMPS

Padm: Keep your eyes open. Look for anything out of the ordinary.


TRADE FEDERATION LABORATORY

Nuvo Vindi sees Padm and Jar Jar.

Nuvo Vindi: I suppose one can never have too many lab rats. Please, escort our guests inside.

Random Droid: Roger, roger.


EASTERN SWAMPS

Jar Jar falls on some metal.

Jar Jar: A hatch.

Padm: Captain Typho, I think were standing right on top of the lab. I need a geo scan of coordinates SP127. No way were going to open this. Well just have to

A Random Droid comes out.

Random Droid: Freeze! Hold it right there.

They are taken to the lab.

TRADE FEDERATION LABORATORY

Jar Jar: Yousa let us go!

Padm: Who are you? Why are you holding us?

Nuvo: Wonderful specimens. Whats a life-form like you doing in a swamp like this?

Padm: I was about to ask you the same thing.

Nuvo: Thanks to the support of my compassionate friends in the Separatist Alliance, I am creating life.

Jar Jar: Howsa yousa creating life?

Nuvo: Im so pleased you inquired. A demonstration is in order. Allow me to present the return of the infamous Blue Shadow virus.

Padm: The Blue Shadow virus? I thought that deadly disease was extinct.

Nuvo: Yes, it was wiped from the galaxy generations ago, but I have given it life once again.

Jar Jar: Yousa not creating life. Yousa taking life. Yousa poisoned the Gungan water.

Nuvo: Unfortunately, the Blue Shadow virus, in its natural form, thrives only in water until I improved upon that weakness. Your eyes do not deceive you. I have perfected an airborne strain of the Blue Shadow virus.

Random Droid: This is the last of the bombs, doctor.

Nuvo: Im well aware this is the last. Youd think Id lose count? The virus in its gaseous forms combined with these bombs will release the Blue Shadow virus back into the galaxy, more potent than ever before.

Padm: Are you insane? Its a deadly disease. No life-forms are immune to it. Thats why it was eradicated.

Nuvo: You mean murdered. Take this away. Meanwhile, as we speak, thousands and thousands of so-called superior life-forms are spreading their disease of war throughout the galaxy. Perhaps they are the ones who should be eradicated.


THEED HANGAR

Typho: General Kenobi, Anakin, were so glad

Anakin Skywalker: Wheres Senator Amidala?

Typho: She went to look for the lab.

Anakin: And you let her go?

3PO: Senator Padm can be very hard to stop once she has made up her mind.

Anakin: Good point. I know what you mean.

Typho: This is Peppi Bow. She was the last person to see them. Padm sent her here to safety.

Peppi: Theysa looking for the sick-maker.

Obi-Wan Kenobi: They?

Typho: Representative Binks was with her.

Anakin: Go with the Gungan. See if you can find them.

Ahsoka Tano: Youve got it, Master.

Obi-Wan: Why didnt you send someone to look for them?

Typho: Considering the latest developments, we thought it was best to wait for you.

Obi-Wan: What latest developments?

Typho: We did a robo-lobotomy on the battle droids and came up with this piece of memory.

Typho shows a hologram of Nuvo Vindi.

Obi-Wan: Who is that?

Typho: Doctor Nuvo Vindi, the senior medic for the Perma families. He disappeared ten years ago.

The hologram recording starts playing.

Nuvo: Good news, my soulless automaton friends. We now have enough of the Blue Shadow virus to start filling the bombs .

Obi-Wan: He said bombs?

Nuvo: We will only need to send one bomb to each key star system. Work quickly. I want them ready to deliver

The recording stops.

Obi-Wan: If those bombs get delivered, well be facing a galaxy-wide plague. The war will be the least of our worries.

Typho: There is some good news. Senator Amidala found the lab. She sent us the coordinates before she disappeared. Weve managed to get a geo scan of the area.

A hologram of the underground lab appears.

Obi-Wan: Its enormous.

Typho: It looks like there are three entry points. Here, here, and here. This appears to be the main lab.

Obi-Wan: And the bombs?

Typho: There seems to be an above average amount of radiation in this area. Its likely where theyre being assembled.

Obi-Wan: If Padm has alerted them to our presence in any way

Anakin: If Padms in there, and then we go in guns a-blazin, she may get killed.

Obi-Wan: It is a risk we have to take. Dr. Vindi and those bombs must not leave the lab.

Anakin: And if they or we detonate one during the attack?

Obi-Wan: Better to have one planet infected than the entire galaxy.


GRASSLANDS

Peppi: These the ship belonging to them.

Ahsoka: So where are they? Their tracks end here.

A scope gets out of the ground right under Peppi.

Ahsoka: Peppi, its a scope. Dont let them see you.


THEED HANGAR
Anakin: Where are they?

Obi-Wan: Patience. Theyll be here in a moment. You seem a bit on edge.

Anakin: Theres a good chance were about to destroy all life on this planet, including ours and the senators, so yes, Im a bit on edge. Why arent you?

Obi-Wan: Im better at hiding it.

Ahsoka (Comlink): Master, are you there?

Anakin: Did you find her?

Ahsoka (C): Negative. Im pretty sure shes inside the lab. The whole area is wired with pressure sensors. Theres no way to get in without being detected. But Im more than happy to

Obi-Wan: Do not attempt to get inside. I need you to detonate a bunker bomb at the south end of the facility. It should cause a nice distraction and seal off the bomb area while we come in through the hatches.

Ahsoka (C): You can count on me.

Anakin: Rex and his men will be right behind you, Snips. Theyll have your back.

They end the call.

Anakin: Come on, wed better hurry.

Obi-Wan: Padm may be lost, Anakin. Dont risk the mission trying to rescue her. Ill take care of the bombs. You focus on the doctor.

Anakin: I know whats at stake here.


EASTERN SWAMPS

Ahsoka is setting a bomb at the south end of the facility.

Ahsoka: Now!

The bomb detonates.


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

Nuvo: We have a breach! All droids to hatch number one!


EASTERN SWAMPS

Catptain Rex and his men have arrived.

Ahsoka: They arrived quicker than I wouldve thought.

Peppi: Meesa come too?

Ahsoka: No. Stay here and make sure no one escapes.

Peppi: Okeyday.


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

Anakin Obi-Wan and some clones got inside.

Random Clone: Its quiet in here.

Anakin: Looks like Ahsokas distraction is working.

On Ahsokas side.

Captain Rex: Forward! Come on!

They are outnumbered.

Ahsoka: Fall back!

On Anakins side, in the main lab.

Anakin: Padm!

Nuvo: Take another step and your friends die.

He electrocutes Padm and Jar Jar.

Nuvo: Drop your weapons.

The clones get ready to shoot.

Anakin: Wait! Do as he says.

On Ahsokas side.

Ahsoka: I cant hold them.

Obi-Wan: Need some help?

Ahsoka: So good to see you, Master Kenobi.

On Anakins side.

Nuvo: I realize I wont be able to hold you for long, Jedi. That is why Im going to give you a choice.

Anakin: Fine with me, as long as one of the options is killing you.

Nuvo: How about capture me or save your friends?

He electrocutes Padm and Jar Jar once again. He escapes and Anakin saves Padm and Jar Jar.

Anakin: Are you okay?

Padm: Ani, how about the next time you rescue me before you kill all the battle droids?

Anakin: A little thank you would go a long way.

On Ahsoka and Obi-Wans side.

Obi-Wan: Things are going well. The lab is secure, and hopefully, Anakin has reached Padm by now. Ill get the bombs.

Ahsoka: Ill keep the droids occupied.

On Anakins side.

Anakin: Grab your blasters. We need to find that doctor.

On Obi-Wans side.

Commander Cody: Well, looks like the bomb room.

Obi-Wan: Yes, and luckily they appear inactive.

Nuvo activates the bomb.

Obi-Wan: I spoke too soon. Get these deactivated now!

On Anakins side.

Obi-Wan (Comlink): Anakin, Im guessing you didnt capture the doctor.

Anakin: Im working on it. Do you have the bombs?

Obi-Wan (C): Dr. Vindi has remotely activated the bombs. Theyre counting down.

Anakin: Thats great.

Obi-Wan (C): And on top of that, one of them seems to be missing.

Anakin: Its down here somewhere. Ahsoka, weve got another situation. Send all the clones to search the facility. Weve got a miss

Ahsoka and Anakins teem meet up at a corner.

Ahsoka: Master?

Anakin: Weve got a missing bomb and a trigger-happy mad doctor on the loose.

Padm: Missing bomb? I saw Dr. Vindi give a little droid a bomb.

Anakin: You guys split up. Find that droid.

Rex: You heard him. Lets move!

Anakin finds the doctor.

Nuvo: Jedi!

Anakin: Leaving so soon, doctor?

Nuvo: You are running out of time. Catch!

Nuvo throws a sample of the Blue Shadow virus to Anakin, and this one catches it but outside the hangar. Nuvo then closes the door.

Anakin: Obi-Wan, Dr. Vindis escaping! Hes at the landing platform.

Obi-Wan (C): All right. Im on my way.

On Padms side.

Jar Jar: Something smells good in here.

Padm finds the droid and the missing bomb.

Padm: Hey, there, little guy. How about you hand that over to me?

The droid gets away.

Padm: Hes getting away!

Jar Jar catches the droid and gives the bomb to Padm.

Padm: Ahsoka, I found the last bomb.

Ahsoka (C): Stay there. Ill get the bomb squad.

On Anakins side.

Anakin is opening the door with his lightsaber when Obi-Wan and his clones arrive.

Anakin: Almost got it.

He finishes cutting a hole in the door and they get in. Nuvo hands out more samples of the virus.

Obi-Wan: Dont shoot! If he drops one of those vials, were finished.

The upper exit opens right where Peppi is.

Peppi: No, no-sa!

 She gets away from the hole right on time.

Anakin: Youre under arrest, Dr. Vindi.

Anakin and Peppi defeat Nuvo.

Nuvo: The bombs going off, and were all going to die! Yeah, die!

At the final moment the detonator shuts down.

Nuvo: Oops. What happened?

On Padm and Ahsokas side.

Cody: Deactivated. Plenty of time to spare.

Jar Jar: Plenty of

Jar Jar falls unconscious.

Anakin (C): Ahsoka, are you there?

Ahsoka: Im here, Master. The bomb has been deactivated. Did you find Vindi?

Anakin (C): Deactivated as well. Have you seen Padm?

Ahsoka: Shes right next to me. Im okay too. Thanks for asking.




Ep 18 - Mystery of a Thousand Moons

Narrator: Hard-pressed Jedi and their valiant clone troopers have thwarted an insidious Separatist plot to plant bombs loaded with the deadly blue shadow virus in key Republic systems. Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker have captured the vile scientist behind the nefarious scheme, Dr. Nuvo Vindi. Now the Jedi prepare to transport Vindi to the Republic capital for trial.


EASTERN SWAMPS

Anakin Skywalker: That was close. If that virus had escaped, everyone on Naboo would be dead now.

Obi-Wan Kenobi: Oh, well. Just another boring day saving the universe.

Anakin: All right. Lets take this sleemo back to Theed so we can help Padm and Ahsoka clean up down there.


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

Commander Cody: Senator, you should see this; Its one of the virus bombs.

Padm Amidala: It looks like the chamber that holds the virus is missing.

Cody: That droid mustve taken it.

Padm: Sound the alarm.

[The alarm starts chirping]

[Meanwhile in the corridors]

Random Clone: How could droids have gotten a hold of the virus containers?

Random Clone: I dont know. But I dont want to be around when they set it off.

[The little droid is behind them with the virus container]

Random Clone: Weve already taken the virus containers out of these bombs. Well just have to check them again.


EASTERN SWAMPS

Nuvo Vindi: The virus is liberated. [laughs] You are doomed young Jedi, along with the rest of the planet.


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

[The little droid puts the virus container back into a bomb]

Random Clone: Hey you!

[The droid activates the bomb]

Random Clone: Get away from there!

[The bomb explodes, freeing the virus into the lab]


EASTERN SWAMPS

Anakin: What was that?


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

Captain Rex: Virus leak. Get to the safe room. Come on!

[They start running, while every door around them is closing and the virus is chasing them]

Random Clone: Theres the safe room! No chance!

Rex: Hurry! The doors are closing!

[The doors starts closing]

Ahsoka Tano: Dont worry.

[Ahsoka holds the door with the Force]

Ahsoka: Get inside captain!

[The clones and Rex get on the other side]

Rex: Hurry!

[Ahsoka jumps in and the door closes behind her]


EASTERN SWAMPS

Anakin: Ahsoka what is going on down there?

Ahsoka (Comlink): The droids released the virus, but we managed to seal the lab.

Anakin: And Padm?

Ahsoka (C): Havent heard from her since the bomb.


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

Padm: Anakin, can you hear me? Anakin!

Anakin (C): Padm, Im here.

Jar Jar Binks: Wheres Ani?

Anakin (C): Are you all right?

Padm: Yes, for the time being. Jar Jar and I were in a safety chamber when the alarm went off. Were wearing protective suits.

Anakin (C): The virus is loose, but Ahsoka has sealed off the entire facility.

Padm: Yes, but any remaining droids will try to break out. Ill do what I can to stop them. I cannot let that virus escape.

Anakin (C): Be careful.

[They end the call]

Padm: Put this on.

[She gives Jar Jar his helmet, he puts it on]

Padm: Come on Jar Jar, were going to find Ahsoka. Well need her help to find those droids.


EASTERN SWAMPS

[Anakin ignites his lightsaber]

Anakin: Wheres the antidote, Vindi?

Vindi: [laughs] You mistake my role, Jedi. My job was to manufacture a plague, not to cure it.

Anakin: We dont have time for games.

Obi-Wan: Patience, Anakin. Theres more than one way to skin a womprat.

Anakin: I said, where ?!

[Anakin moves his lightsaber closer to Vindi]

Vindi: Yes, kill me now and spare these old bones the blue shadows dire embrace, because once the first droid breaks out of that laboratory, all Naboo is doomed!

Obi-Wan: Anakin, the fastest way to save Senator Amidala and Ahsoka is to get Vindi back to the capital and find an actual antidote.

[Anakin puts away his lightsaber, they leave the swamps]


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

Random Clone: No, no, no! Some of the virus got in here. We didnt close the door fast enough.

Rex: We may be dead men, but we could still stop those droids.

Ahsoka: Dont worry. My master will find a cure for this virus. Were not dead yet.

Padm (C): Is anyone out there? Can anyone hear

Ahsoka: Senator Amidala, were trapped in the safe room at the end of complex B.

Padm (C): Well be right there. Are you contaminated?

[Some clones start coughing]

Ahsoka: Im afraid so.


THEED HANGAR

[Anakin, Obi-Wan and Vindi have arrived]

Captain Typho: Dr. Vindi, youll pay for your treachery. Take him away.

Obi-Wan: Now well need to find an antidote.

Typho: I think I found an answer for you.

[They follow him into a room]

Anakin: So you think you found a cure?

Typho: Possibly. A little-known extract made from reeksa root, a weed-like vine found only on Iego, the world of a thousand moons, deep in Separatist-controlled space.

[Typho shows a hologram of the antidote]

Anakin: Lets go.

Typho: You must move cautiously if you-

Anakin: Theres no time for caution! My Padawan is trapped down there, and so is Padm!

[Obi-Wan gives him an awkward stare]

Anakin: I mean, Senator Amidala.

Typho: I applaud your courage, General Skywalker, but its suicide. Once we contain the virus we can send troops.

Anakin: No, Obi-Wan and I can handle it.

Obi-Wan: I concur Anakin.

[They leave Naboo]


THE TWILIGHT

Obi-Wan: Padm and Ahsoka will be fine.

Anakin: They will be, if we succeed.

[They jump into hyperspace]


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

Random Droid: All the doors are locked. How are we gonna get out?

Random Droid: Its not our problem.

Random Droid: Boy, thats a relief.

Ahsoka (C): Senator Amidala, where are you?

Padm: Were right outside your safety room.

Ahsoka (C): Can you get the door open?

Padm: Go ahead, Jar Jar.

[Jar Jar opens the door, letting the virus in]

Padm: Im sorry, Ahsoka.

Ahsoka: Dont worry about us, Senator. We still have a job to do.

Padm: There arent very many droids left. We saw some heading toward the south entrance.

Ahsoka: As long as were able, well help you destroy those droids before they breach the compound.

[Rex hands Padm a blaster]

Padm: You take the north corridor, and well take the south.

[They both move to positions]

Padm: The droids are close. I can hear them cutting through the wall.

[They engage the droids, and successfully destroy all but one]

[The surviving droid is going to open the hatch]

Padm: Dont open that hatch!

Random Droid: Ha! Too late!

[They fire at the droid and destroy him]


THE TWILIGHT

[Anakin and Obi-Wan have come out of hyperspace]

Obi-Wan: There it is, Iego.

Anakin: What do you make of this?

Obi-Wan: It looks like a graveyard of ships.


CLIFFHOLD

[Anakin and Obi-Wan have landed on Iego]

Anakin: Lets go.

Obi-Wan: Anakin

[Some battle droids come toward them]

Anakin: Not good

All Droids: Welcome to Iego. Roger, roger.

Obi-Wan: Anakin wait. Wait!

All Droids: Welcome to I-

[Anakin ignites his lightsaber and starts destroying them]

[He suddenly stops, when seeing none of them are fighting back]

All Droids: Welcome to Iego.

Obi-Wan: Very impressive. You just destroyed 17 defenseless battle droids without suffering a scratch.

Random Droid: Welco-

[The droid collapses]

Anakin: Eighteen, actually.

Random Droid: The venerable Jaybo Hood requests an audience.

Anakin and Obi-Wan: Jaybo?

[A kid arrives]

Jaybo Hood: Hey. You guys have any idea how long it took me to repurpose those droids?

Anakin: [chuckles] Youre Jaybo?

Jaybo: Well, do you?

Obi-Wan: I apologize for my friends rather rash behavior.

Jaybo: Nine months, man. It took me nine months.

[Jaybo lies on a hammock, and then claps twice]

Random Droid: Oh, thats our cue.

[The droid gives Jaybo some fresh air]

Random Droid: Channel 2.

[Some music starts playing out of the droids radio]

Anakin: How would a kid like you come by this many battle droids anyway?

Jaybo: Simple. When the Separatists took off, they left all this junk behind. I got a whole warehouse full of em right over there.

Obi-Wan: So you programmed them to serve you.

Jaybo: No reason to let a good droid rust, right?

Anakin: Mmm-hm. Looks like you used a macro protocol to wipe them all simultaneously. Impressive.

Jaybo: I see you know your droids. Youre Jedi, arent you? You want me to show you how I did it?

Obi-Wan: Perhaps another time. What we need now is reeksa root. Do you know where we can find some?

Jaybo: Here, there, everywhere.

Anakin: We dont have time for games, kid. Wheres the root?

Obi-Wan: What my friend is trying to say is that we are in a bit of a hurry.

Jaybo: [chuckles] Not anymore youre not.

Anakin: Look, you little-

Jaybo: This system is haunted, cursed, whatever. Anyway, Jedi or not, no one gets off this rock alive, not past Drol.

Random Droid: Drol?!

Obi-Wan: Drol?

Jaybo: Yeah, Drol. The phantom ruler of Iego. He destroys anything that leaves the planet. Fifty of the best star pilots in the galaxy have tried. Fifty tried, fifty died.

Obi-Wan: I suppose that explains the ruined ships in the moonbelt.

Anakin: First things first. Well have to deal with this Drol later.


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

[Everyone is fighting together some droids]

Jar Jar: This-a help.

[Jar Jar prepares himself to shoot the droids with a blaster]

Padm: Jar Jar no!

[Jar Jar shoots Padm]

Ahsoka: Senator!

Rex: Senator, your suits been compromised.

Ahsoka: Im so sorry.

[Padm takes her helmet off]

Padm: Dont blame yourself. These things tend to happen in a war zone.


CLIFFHOLD

[Anakin and Obi-Wan are going down the cliff to get some reeksa root]

Obi-Wan: Are you coming?

Jaybo: Youve gotta be kidding. No way Im going down there.

Anakin: [grunts] You trying to tell us something?

Jaybo: Dont worry, its simple. Follow the vines to the bottom, dig up the roots, but dont touch the vine.

Obi-Wan: Aside from the obvious, why not?

Jaybo: Because the plants dont like it, and they have big sharp teeth.

Anakin: Teeth? This is getting better by the minute.

Jaybo: And watch out for the flying xandu.

Anakin: Whats a xandu?

Obi-Wan: Im not sure.

[A xandu comes out of nowhere and grabs Anakin]

Anakin: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa! Master, hop on!

[Obi-Wan hops on the xandu, and they pull him down the pit]

Obi-Wan: This isnt going to work!


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

[Some droids are trying to exit the lab]

Random Droid: How are you doing up there?

Random Droid: Im almost through.

Ahsoka: There they are!

[She destroys the two battle droids, and then groans heavily]

Padm: Ahsoka!

Ahsoka: Im all right.


CLIFFHOLD

Obi-Wan: There, those are the roots we are looking for.

Anakin: Oh, poodoo.

[The xandu drops them, and a plant prepares to attack them]

Obi-Wan: I have a bad feeling about this.

[Anakin takes a shovel out, and Obi-Wan ignites his lightsaber]

Obi-Wan: Dont take too long with that.

Anakin: Ill go as fast as I can.

[The plant is becoming more agressive]

Obi-Wan: Anakin, hurry. Anakin, now!

Anakin: Okay, okay. Got it.

[Anakin puts the roots in Obi-Wans backpack]

Anakin: Hold still.

Obi-Wan: Weve got to get out of here now.

[Some plants start chasing them, but they successfully defeat them and climb up the cliff]

Jaybo: You made it! I knew you would.

Obi-Wan: Oh, did you?

[They go into the spaceport]

Jaybo: The place dried up once the spice convoy stopped running. Out here, were just one of the millions of little backwaters no one cares about. Those of us who are left cant leave because of the curse.

Amit Noloff: Cursed we are, the planet is cursed.

Obi-Wan: Cursed by whom, my twitchy friend?

Amit: The ghost of Drol, thats who.

Anakin: A ghost?

Amit: The spirit of the thousand moons, our protector and destroyer.

Anakin: If you ask me it sounds like a load of-

Obi-Wan: Superstition?

Anakin: Thats one word for it.

Amit: Superstition, you say.

[Amit starts playing a hologram recording]

Taqito: Cant hold on much Someone help me! [the ship he is on explodes]

[The recording ends]

Jaybo: That was Taqito. He was a friend of mine.

Amit: Try to leave this planet, and your fate will be the same.

[Anakin and Obi-Wan leave onboard the Twilight]

Jaybo: Never make it past Drol.


THE TWILIGHT

Obi-Wan: The ghost of Drol may be a local superstition, but something real blew up those ships.

Anakin: Real we can handle.

Jaybo (C): Too bad, I really liked those guys.

Anakin: Thanks for your help, kid. We couldnt have done it without you.

Jaybo (C): Have you run into Drol yet?

Obi-Wan: Not to worry Jaybo.

[R2-D2 blips]

Anakin: Whats the matter R2? Afraid of a ghost? Drol is just a superstition

[An energy field is triggered]

Obi-Wan: Theres our ghost!

Anakin: Lasers!

Obi-Wan: Weve triggered an energy field.

[Cliffhold]

[Jaybo: Oh, no]

Obi-Wan: Turn the ship around. Well never make it through. 

[Anakin turns the ship around]

Obi-Wan: The Separatists mustve installed those lasers to prevent people from leaving the planet.


CLIFFHOLD

Jaybo: Theyre coming back!

[Anakin and Obi-Wan land]

Ahsoka (Hologram): Master, can you hear me?

Anakin: R2, amplify the signal.

[R2 proceeds to do so]

Ahsoka (H): Destroyed all the battle droids inside the compound, Master. Naboo is safe from further contamination. I repeat; Naboo is safe. [coughs]

Padm (H): Promise me that no one will ever open this bunker. Goodbye Anakin, I- [coughs]

[The hologram ends]

Anakin: No!

[Anakin and Obi-Wan come out the ship]

Anakin: Well borrow a power converter from Jaybo and reprogram it to feed our-

Obi-Wan: Slow down, Anakin.

Anakin: Slow down? Slow down?! You saw them, Master. Theyre dying!

Obi-Wan: A great leap forward often requires first taking two steps back.

Anakin: And sometimes all it requires is the will to jump.

Obi-Wan: At least hear me out on this.


IEGO COUNCIL

Obi-Wan: Citizens of Iego, Drol is not a ghost. Rather it is a Separatist security system.

Amit: Nonsense! You were lucky to escape alive! Simple as that.

Anakin: And who says we didnt make our own luck?

Amit: The ghost of Drol does, thats who!

Obi-Wan: Did anyone inhabit Iegos moons before the Separatists arrived?

Amit: The angels, of course.

Obi-Wan: Angels?

[Some angels enter the room]

Random Angel: We were a peaceful people before the Separatists drove us from our homes and stole our moon.

Obi-Wan: And which moon was that?

[The random angel shows a hologram of the Iego system]

Random Angel: Millius Prime

Anakin: The primary node, it must be near Millius Prime.

Obi-Wan: Hmm, vulture droids Jaybo, can you reactivate those vulture droids?

Jaybo: Sure. I can even fly them by remote control.

Obi-Wan: Good. We can have R2 fly the vulture droids as a decoy into the laser field.

Anakin: And since we know what were up against this time, we can destroy the laser emitter.

Obi-Wan: And cut a path right to Millius Prime.


TRADE FEDERATION LAB

[Everyone is coughing very hard]

Padm: What a waste.

Rex: With all due respect, Senator [sighs] Its what these men were born to do.

Padm: I hope that their sacrifice brings us closer to peace.

Ahsoka: [coughs a lot] It will, Padm. You must believe that

[She falls unconscious, too weak]

Padm: Ahsoka!


CLIFFHOLD

Jaybo: Ready, General Kenobi.

Anakin: Jaybo, activate the droids.

[He proceeds to do so]

Anakin: Transfer control of the vulture droids to R2.

[He again proceeds to do so, R2 takes control of the droids and they leave Iego]


THE TWILIGHT

[The energy fields starts surrounding them]

Obi-Wan: R2, intercept the lasers.

[R2 proceeds to do so]

Obi-Wan: Send the vulture droids directly into the laser generator.

[R2 again proceeds to do so, and the energy field is destroyed]


CLIFFHOLD

Jaybo: Woah You guys okay? Guys?

Anakin (C): Were fine kid. Im afraid youll need some new droids to boss around, Jaybo. The ones you lent us are pretty much toast.

Obi-Wan (C): But the good news is that youre now free to leave Iego whenever you choose.


THE TWILIGHT

Anakin: R2, set a course for Naboo.

[R2 proceeds to do so]


EASTERN SWAMPS

[The Republic have arrived alongside Anakin and Obi-Wan, and everyone that was inside the bunker is safe]

Anakin: Padm. I spoke with the medical droid. He expects you to make a full recovery.

Padm: I never lost faith in you. None of us did.

Anakin: Oh, thats good to hear, cause there were a few moments where we werent so sure of ourselves.

Padm: Well, you did make it. By the way, your Padawan was brilliant. I trust Ill see you soon, General Skywalker?

Padm: Of course, my lady.

[Jar Jar is having trouble taking off his helmet]

Obi-Wan: I heard you were quite brave fending off the battle droids, Jar Jar.

[He helps Jar Jar take his helmet off]

Jar Jar: Really?

Obi-Wan: Senator Amidala suggested we offer you training to help hone your skills with a blaster.

Jar Jar: Really?

Obi-Wan: Really.

Jar Jar: Oh, boy, Im-a gonna be trained!

Rex: I am not training him.

Anakin: You did a fantastic job today, Snips.

Ahsoka: All thanks to your training, Master.

Anakin: Yeah, youre right. I probably do deserve most of the credit. [scoffs] But not all of it.

Ahsoka: Good thing I know you dont mean everything you say.

Anakin: Pilot, get these two out of here.

Ahsoka: Thank you, Master.

[They leave the swamps]



Ep 19 - Storm over Ryloth

Narrator: Planet Ryloth invaded! Subjected to a brutal droid occupation, the people of Ryloth are starving under the blockade of a Separatist fleet. Evil Separatist leader, Wat Tambor, now rules with an iron fist. Answering a plea from the Senate, the Grand Army of the Republic mounts a bold offensive to liberate the system. It is up to Anakin Skywalker and his Padawan Ahsoka to make way for Obi-Wans ground assault.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Wat Tambor (Hologram): Captain, are you prepared?

Mar Tuuk: Our blockade is impenetrable. When the Republic attacks, they will get quite a surprise.

Tambor (H): Im counting on you, Captain. We cannot allow the Republic to invade this planet.

The hologram disappears.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE
Random Clone: Sir, were coming out of hyperspace.

Admiral Yularen: Prepare for battle. Raise the shields.

[They come out of hyperspace]


RESOLUTE HANGAR

Yularen (Intercome): All ships prepare for launch. All ships prepare for launch.

Ahsoka Tano: This is my first time commanding a squadron, R7. Lets make a good impression.

[R7 asks if shes nervous]

Ahsoka: Of course Im not nervous.

Anakin Skywalker: Hey, Snips. This is it, your first command. Dont be nervous.

Ahsoka: I wish everyone would stop saying that.

Anakin: The men youre commanding are depending on you with their lives.

Ahsoka: Thanks. That takes the pressure off. If I wasnt nervous before, I sure am now.

Anakin: Hey, I have faith in you. I wouldnt send you out there if I didnt think you could handle it. May the Force be with you.

Ahsoka: I wont let you down

[Anakin leaves]

Ahsoka: I hope.

[She prepares her starfighter for departure]

Ahsoka: Okay, you boys ready?

Axe (Comlink): This is two Axe. Ready when you are, Skipper.

Slammer (C): Ready on three, this is Slammer over.

Kickback (C): Ready on four. Kickback checking in, over.

Swoop (C): Swoop to Blue Leader, Group Two is standing by, over.

Tucker (C): Tucker on five. Waiting for mother bird, over.

[They leave the Resolute]


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Tuuk: Commander.

Random Droid: Yes, Captain?

Tuuk: Launch all fighters.

Random Droid: Roger, roger.

[Vulture droids are launched]


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Anakin: Tell Ahsoka the fleet is ready.

Yularen: Commander, youre all clear.

Ahsoka (C): Thank you, Admiral. Keep the cruisers back until weve softened them up. Well R7, are you ready for some action?


BLUE SQUADRON

Ahsoka: Axe, keep your squadron back and wait for my signal.

Axe (C): You got it, boss.

Ahsoka: Here we go.

[They engage the Separatists]

Ahsoka: Alright boys, lets clear a path.

Axe (C): Right away, sir.

Ahsoka: Pick your targets.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Tucker (C): Dropped another bogey. You are clear, you are clear.

Axe (C): Nice work, Blue Five.

Tucker (C): Two new targets closing.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

[A hologram of the Resolute appears]

Tuuk: That is General Skywalkers flagship. He is leading this attack.

Random Droid: Sir, their fighters are closing fast.

Tuuk: Patience. Lets see what trickery the Jedi have planned for us.


BLUE SQUADRON

Ahsoka: Weve got their fighters occupied. Axe, time for us to make a run for the battleship.

Axe (C): Come on, you whiners. Lets get dirty.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Random Droid: Sir, a squadron of fighters are attacking. They have a clear path right to us.

Tuuk: Now is the time to bring in our reinforcements.

Random Droid: Battlecruiser 17, Battlecruiser 19, attack position.

[Two battlecruisers come out of hyperspace]


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Random Clone: Admiral, four more enemy cruisers have joined the blockade.

Yularen: Weve got to warn those fighters.


BLUE SQUADRON

Yularen (C): Commander, weve been caught in a trap.

Ahsoka: Youre overreacting, Admiral. I can get us through. Blue Squadron, stay the course.

Tucker (C): Were all set, Blue Leader.

Yularen (C): Im ordering you to return to the ship. Were going to need your help.

Anakin (C): Ahsoka, its too risky. Get your pilots out of there.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Random Droid: Sir, weve got their fighters surrounded.

Tuuk: Good.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Random Clone: Shes not turning around.

Yularen: Did you train her not to follow orders?


BLUE SQUADRON

Ahsoka: Axe, are you still there? Come on, boys, stay in formation.

Axe (C): Ive got two on my tail. I cant shake them.

Slammer (C): I cant help you, Axe. Ive got my own problem.

[Slammers fighter is destroyed, he dies]


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Yularen: Were far too outnumbered. Theyre breaking our lines.

Anakin: Ahsoka we are in trouble. I order you back here.


BLUE SQUADRON

Ahsoka: Alright, alright. Lets go squad. Pull back to the command ship.

Axe (C): Why are we retreating?

Ahsoka: Were not retreating. Were following orders.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Yularen: Intensify deflector shields. 

Random Clone: There are too many. We cant shoot them all down.

Yularen: Fighter squadron, where are you?

Ahsoka (C): Cool your jets, Admiral. Were almost there.

Yularen: Its too late!

Anakin: Run for it!

[A Vulture droid crashes in the bridge]

Ahsoka (C): Admiral, come in. Admiral!

[Yularen is hurt]

Anakin: Hang on, Admiral.

Yularen: Get us out of here.

Anakin: Get those fighters on board and prepare for lightspeed.


BLUE SQUADRON

Captain Rex (C): All fighters return. Were preparing for lightspeed.

Ahsoka: Uh, right. Axe, stand on it. We only have a few seconds to get on board.

Axe (C): Dont worry about me, Skipper.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Random Droid: Captain, the Republic space forces are in retreat. Shall we pursue?

Tuuk: No, do not break our formation. Let those cowards rot.


BLUE SQUADRON

Axe (C): Ah, my power converters, theyre failing.

Ahsoka: Just stay with me, Axe.

Axe (C): Overload, overload!

[Axes starfighter is destroyed, he dies]

Ahsoka: Axe!

[They finally arrive to the Resolute]

Ahsoka: Close up the hangar doors. Were home.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Anakin: Jump to lightspeed.

[They jump to lightspeed]


RESOLUTE HANGAR

Anakin: Get your squad together. I need a headcount. We need to know how many we lost today.

[Anakin goes to meet Ahsoka]

Anakin: Ahsoka, I am very disappointed in you. You not only disobeyed the Admiral, you disobeyed me.

Ahsoka: I thought I could knock out those battleships so when Master Obi-Wan arrived, he could get through.

Anakin: I know you meant well, Snips, but theres a bigger picture that youre not aware of. First rule of war, listen and obey your superiors.

Ahsoka: But sometimes you get carried away.

Anakin: All that means is that I understand what youre going through.

Ahsoka: But I failed.

Anakin: It was a trap, Snips. It wasnt your fault.

Ahsoka: I lost so many of my pilots.

Anakin: Take heart, little one. Thats the reality of command.

[Rex comes to meet Anakin]

Rex: General, were approaching our staging area.

Anakin: Very good Captain.

Rex: Master Windu is requesting a report on our progress.

Anakin: Our progress, uh? Well, we havent made any progress yet.

Rex: Ill tell him, sir.

Anakin: No Rex, Ill tell him myself. Thank you. As soon as we tend to our wounded, get me a damage report.

[Ahsoka leaves]

Rex: Right away, sir.

Anakin: Now, Snips, Im gonna need you to

[He realizes Ahsoka left]


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Tambor (H): Captain, what is the status of the enemy attack?

Tuuk: The Jedi were crushed, of course. They fled the system, their ships in flames. I assure you, Emir, our blockade is very much intact.

Tambor (H): Congratulations are in order, Captain. But do not underestimate the Jedi.

[The hologram ends]

Tuuk: Commander, bring me the archive data on General Skywalker. I need to learn more about our opponent.

Random Droid: Roger, roger.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Anakin: They caught us by surprise, Master. We were outnumbered.

Obi-Wan Kenobi (H): How many men did you lose?

Anakin: We lost a cruiser, the Redeemer, plus an entire squadron of fighters.

Obi-Wan (H): And your Padawan?

Anakin: No, uh, Ahsoka is fine. Shes just recovering from the battle. Losing her squad was hard to take.

Obi-Wan (H): Give her time, but Anakin, you will need her help if youre going to get through this.

Anakin: I know.

Mace Windu (H): Your forces have been cut in half, Skywalker. If you cant break that blockade before the next planetary rotation, we will have to postpone the invasion.

Anakin: The Twileks on that planet cant wait forever, Master. The longer the Techno Union keeps control of Ryloth, the more difficult it will be to free them.

Mace (H): I agree. We dont have much time.

[The holograms end]

Anakin: Rex, see if you can find Ahsoka.


RESOLUTE MEDICAL CENTER

[Ahsoka is checking on Yularen]

Medical Droid: He is stable for now.

Ahsoka: Admiral, I am so sorry. Theyre all gone.

[Rex enters the room]

Rex: Commander Ahsoka, General Skywalker is looking for you.


RESOLUTE HANGAR

[Anakin is fixing a starfighter]

Anakin: No, R2, the other one. Yeah, thats it. Thatll do it.

[Ahsoka arrives]

Ahsoka: You wanted to see me, Master?

Anakin: Ahsoka, hand me that socket plug.

Ahsoka: Here.

Anakin: Thanks, Snips. How are you feeling?

Ahsoka: Oh, Im fine, Master, just fine.

Anakin: Ah, thats good to hear. Im gonna need you levelheaded if were gonna pull this thing off.

Ahsoka: Pull this off? Pull what off?

Anakin: [grunts] I talked to Master Windu. We are to proceed with our attack on the blockade.

Ahsoka: What?! Uh we cant! I, I, I-

Anakin: Ahsoka, we have to break that blockade. The Twileks on Ryloth are depending on us.

Ahsoka: I understand that, Master, but weve lost so many men. Did we get more support?

Anakin: No, we have to make do with the forces we have, and I need to come up with a plan.

Ahsoka: You dont even have a plan?

Anakin: Dont worry, Ahsoka.

Ahsoka: No! Thats what you said last time, and now everyones gone, my whole squadron!

Anakin: Ahsoka!

Ahsoka: We cant just smash through that blockade.

[Anakin receives a comlink call]

Anakin: Skywalker here.

Rex (C): General, the Defender is contacting us. There seems to be a problem.

Anakin: All right, Rex. Ill be right there.

[He ends the call]

Anakin: Go back to your quarters and cool off. Well finish this talk later.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Tuuk: Not a conventional Jedi, to say the least, it would seem. Hmm, Commander!

Random Droid: Yes, Captain?

Tuuk: Prepare all cannons and send the droids to their battle stations.

Random Droid: Yes, sir. Um, Captain, are we under attack?

Tuuk: No, but if Skywalkers record indicates anything, hell be back.


RESOLUTE

[An alarm is loudly chirping]

Ahsoka: Trooper, whats going on?

Random Clone: The starship Defender is being evacuated, sir.

Ahsoka: Evacuated? Why?

Random Clone: Im not sure, Commander. Were on our way to help General Skywalker in the hangar.


RESOLUTE HANGAR

Anakin: Alright men, alright. This way. Come on. Move it. Move it! Lets go, no time to waste!

Ahsoka: Master, Im almost afraid to ask.

Anakin: I ordered the Defender evacuated.

Ahsoka: I can see that. Why?

Anakin: Well, actually, I got the idea from you.

Ahsoka: Oh, great.

Anakin: Rex, take over, will you? You said we just couldnt smash through the blockade. I decided thats partly true. You also implied that my plans put a lot of people at risk, and I agree with you on that one.

Ahsoka: Thats a first.

Anakin: I decided the only way we can break the blockade is if I pilot the Defender right into their battleship and take out the commander.

Ahsoka: What?

Anakin: This way, Im the only one at risk. Besides, the Defender is damaged already.

Ahsoka: You cant be serious, Master. Youll die!

Anakin: No, I wont. Thats where you come in. The enemy cant stop that ship from taking them out. R2 and I will get in an escape pod and jettison right before impact.

Ahsoka: But the enemy fleet is right there.

Anakin: I know. And Ill pretty much be defenseless in an escape pod, so Im depending on you to engage the remaining fleet with the combined forces we have here.

Ahsoka: Master, I uh I cant. If something goes wrong, I cant be responsible for-

Anakin: You are responsible, Ahsoka. These men are depending on you and this time, so am I.

Ahsoka: But Master last time I-

Anakin: Attention! Everyone, attention! Alright men, listen up. Im taking over the Defender, and Im leaving Commander Ahsoka in charge. Shell lead the second half of the mission when we engage whats remaining of the blockade.

Rex: Try to leave some ships for us, General.

Anakin: [laughs] Will do, Rex. Now, Commander Ahsoka will fill you in on the full plan.

Ahsoka: Master, wait!

Anakin: Good luck.

Ahsoka: Master

[Anakin leaves Ahsoka with the clones]

Rex: Awaiting orders, Commander.

Ahsoka: [grunts] Ill be on the bridge.

Rex: Well, you heard her boys. Back to work. Come on! Move it, move it!


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Rex: Commander on deck!

Ahsoka: At ease.

Rex: General Skywalker is contacting you.

[A hologram of Anakin appears]

Anakin (H): Alright, Ahsoka. Were ready to get on the way.

Ahsoka: Master, are you sure you wont reconsider this?

Anakin (H): This is the only way. Trust me.

[Anakins hologram disappears]

Rex: Better fill us in, Commander.

Ahsoka: Right.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Tambor (H): Count Dooku has assured me the Republic forces are stretched thin in our sector. They should be unable to mount a counterattack. Any attempt to do so would be suicide.

Tuuk: Still, I am certain this Skywalker will return. His ultimate defeat shall be my greatest victory.

Tambor (H): You admire Skywalker?

Tuuk: As a general, yes. His record shows he is a great warrior and I want him to know it is I who has beaten him.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Rex: Well, I have to say, this plan is questionable.

Ahsoka: Yeah, but with their general destroyed along with their battleship, the droid commanders will be in chaos.

Anakin: Only temporarily, and theres still General Skywalker to find in all that mess.

Ahsoka: I know, but-

Random Clone: In our first attack, we had three fully armed cruisers, and we failed.

Rex: I wish General Skywalker had discussed this plan with us. The odds are very much against us.

Ahsoka: They always are.

Random Clone: Yes, but normally we have General Skywalker to lead us in I meant no offense, Commander.

Ahsoka: None taken.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Random Droid: Sir, an enemy ship is emerging from hyperspace.

Tuuk: I knew hed return.

Random Droid: There is an incoming transmission, sir.

Tuuk: Ah, put it through.

[An image of Skywalker appears]

Anakin (Video): Greetings, Captain. Im Anakin Skywalker, General of the Grand Army of-

Tuuk: I know who you are, Skywalker.

Anakin (V): Well, my reputation precedes me then. Ive been ordered to surrender myself, the entire crew of this vessel, and my ship in exchange for safe passage of food and medical supplies to the people of Ryloth.

Tuuk: A noble gesture, Jedi. And your capture would make me the envy of the Separatist fleet.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Random Clone: Sir, even if Skywalker is successful and destroys the battleship, how will we stand up to the combined firepower of the remaining frigates?

Ahsoka: I thought about that, and well, I have an idea.

Rex: Go ahead, Commander.

Ahsoka: If we took the Resolute and angled her hull against the incoming frigates, the bridge and hangar deck would be relatively safe from their attack. We could draw them in and then use the bombers to outflank them. The bombers would be too fast, and they would be trapped.

Rex: Hmm.

Random Clone: Im not sure about this, Commander.

Ahsoka: I I think-

Rex: If we were certain the shields would hold. 

Random Clone: Perhaps a different strategy. We need to take more time and plan.

Ahsoka: No! We dont have any more time. Master Skywalker needs me now! He needs us now.

[Yularen enters the bridge]

Yularen: The Commander is right. I know this strategy is very bold, but these circumstances call for drastic measures.

Random Clone: Then the strategy will work sir?

Yularen: Well, will it?

Ahsoka: Yes, it will.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Random Droid: We have completed the scan of the enemy ship.

Tuuk: And?

Random Droid: The ship is heavily damaged. All power is diverted to the forward shields. There is only one life-form on board.

Tuuk: What?!

Random Droid: The ship is heavily damaged. All power is diver-

Tuuk: No, you insolent scraphead! Skywalker, what treachery is this?! You have nothing to bargain with.

Anakin (V): [chuckles] In that case, Ill be going. Oh, you can still have my ship.

Random Droid: Uh, sir, theres a second Republic ship entering the system.


DEFENDER

Anakin: She made it! Boost the engines, and lets get out of here.

[R2-D2 proceeds to do so]


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Ahsoka: When those two ships collide, therell be chaos. We need that time to get General Skywalkers pod into the tractor beam.

Rex: Right, Commander.

Ahsoka: Ill command the fighter squadron. Wait for my signal to begin our attack.

Rex: Yes, sir.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Tuuk: All cannons, fire! Fire!

Random Droid: We cant stop it. What should we do?

Tuuk: You stay here. Ill be back.

Random Droid: Oh, thats great.

[The Defender collides with the Separatists]

ANAKINS ESCAPE POD

Anakin: See, I told you it would work.

Ahsoka (C): Skyguy, were approaching your position. Stand by for retrieval.

Anakin: Right on time, Ahsoka.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Yularen: I dont think theyre going to attack, Commander.

Rex: Well have to retreat.

Ahsoka (C): No, wait. Remember they are droids. Theyre just a little slow. Theyll figure it out.


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Random Droid (H): I think the Captain left.

Random Droid (H): Whos in charge?

Random Droid (H): Not me.

Random Droid (H): Not me.

Random Droid (H): What should we do?

Random Droid: Begin attack.


RESOLUTE BRIDGE

Rex: Droids are attacking sir.

Yularen: Commander, on your order, commence flanking maneuver.


FIGHTER SQUADRON

Ahsoka: Okay, boys, here we go. Follow my lead.

[They engage the Separatists]


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Random Droid (H): Weve been outflanked.

Random Droid (H): Affirmative.


ANAKINS ESCAPE POD

Anakin: That a girl, Ahsoka.

[The Republic is destroying the blockade]


LUCREHULK CLASS-BATTLESHIP

Tambor (H): Where is the Captain? What is going on?

Random Droid: Hes in an escape pod.

Tambor (H): Idiots! The blockade has been broken.

Random Droid: Uh, where are those escape pods?


FIGHTER SQUADRON

Rex (C): Commander, the invasion fleet is coming out of hyperspace.

Obi-Wan (C): Ahsoka, this is Obi-Wan. May we begin our landing?

Ahsoka: Yes, Master. Youre cleared for ground assault.

Obi-Wan (C): I wont even ask where the rest of Anakins fleet is, or why hes in an escape pod.

Ahsoka: Thats probably for the best. Rex that reminds me; send a shuttle to pick up Master Skywalker.


ANAKINS ESCAPE POD

Rex (C): General, you still there?

Anakin: Yep, Im just sitting here watching the show.

[Anakin is picked up by a shuttle]


Ep 20 - Innocents of Ryloth

Narrator: Invasion! Separatist leader Wat Tambor has taken control of the planet Ryloth and subjugates its people through a brutal droid occupation. In a daring surprise attack, Jedi Anakin Skywalker and his Padawan, Ahsoka Tano, defeated the space blockade guarding the planet. Now Jedi Generals Mace Windu and Obi-Wan Kenobi lead a massive invasion to liberate the starving people.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: First trick will be getting our troops on the ground.
Mace Mindu: If you take the city of Nabat first, we'll have our landing zone.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Well, it's time to meet the natives.
Wat Tambor (hologram): You must not allow the clones to reach the surface.
TX-20: Our new proton canon are in the optimum position to prevent that, sir.
Wat Tambor (hologram): What?- What if they focus the attack on your cannon?
TX-20: I am utilizing the prisoners from this village as living shields. I calculate the Jedi will not risk the prisoners' safety with a direct assault.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: We need to remember why we're here. We came to aid the Twi'leks, not destroy their home. Cody?
Commander Cody: That means we'll be taking it back the hard way. Minimal destruction with blasters and droid poppers only. No rockets or detonators. Check your aim. Keep an eye out for the locals. Am I understood?
Troopers: Sir, yes, sir!
Boil: [sighs] If we're here to free the tail-heads, the least they can do is get out of our way.
B1 Battle Droid: Sir, the enemy is in range.
TX-20: Fire at will.
Lieutenant Ponds: General, the enemy fire is penetrating our shields.
Mace Windu: Get me Kenobi.
Mace Windu (hologram): We can't risk landing the larger transports until you take out those guns.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Pull back. We'll take care of it.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Who's up for a challenge? We're not getting any reinforcements until those guns are out of commission.
Waxer: Here we go again.
B1 Battle Droid: Commander, the Republic transports have turned away, but the gunships are still heading toward us.
TX-20: Just as I calculated.
TX-20: Prepare for their ground assault.
B1 Battle Droid (1): I think I see movement in the trees.
B1 Battle Droid (2): Fire, fire!
Commander Cody: Come on, then, let's go! Go, go, go!
Commander Cody: That bunker's gonna be a problem, General.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Leave the bunker to me. Bring in your troopers on my signal. You two wanted action. Follow me.
Boil: You heard him, Waxer.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Let's take them out. Now!
Waxer: We've gotta get closer to the wall!
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Try again. I'll give you some help.
Commander Cody: Ghost Company. Let's move.
B1 Battle Droid: Sir, I've lost contact with our outer defenses.
TX-20: The Republic troops have overrun the village perimeter. Find out how the Jedi plan to attack.
B1 Battle Droid: Roger, roger.
Commander Cody: The wall is secure, sir. Are we moving on to the guns?
Obi-Wan Kenobi: We need to know what the droids have in store for us. Send your best men to scout ahead.
Commander Cody: Will do, sir. Boil, Waxer, come with me.
Boil: I guess we're the best.
Commander Cody: Buildings are just buildings. What really makes a city are the inhabitants that live in it.
Boil: So where are they?
Commander Cody: We'll check out the courtyard. You two take the south sector. Be back at command by 0620.
Boil: Yes, sir.
Waxer: I tell you, Boil, this is creepy. You think they killed all of them?
Boil: Well, there are no bodies.
Waxer: They were driven from their homes. I don't think they had a...
Boil: Had a what?
Waxer: [sighs] Choice.
Wooley: Not gonna be easy getting to those guns, sir.
Commander Cody: There is always a way, Wooley.
Commander Cody: Wait, Twi'leks. They're holding all the survivors hostage. We have to report this to General Kenobi.
Commander Cody: Found the guns. They're in the courtyard here and here. But there's a complication. They've taken the locals hostage and they're using them as shields.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: The Twi'lek prisoners will make this difficult but not impossible. I still have a good plan for taking out those guns.
Mace Windu (hologram): Getting the villagers out of harm's way is our first priority. I have faith in you, General Kenobi.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Cody, we'll go in with everything we have. Clear those hostages.
TX-20: So, it's General Kenobi who is leading this assault. He is known for his deceptive maneuvers.
B1 Battle Droid: Roger, roger. Download his file.
Boil: Ah, it's just a little girl.
Waxer: Well, what are we gonna do with her?
Boil: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Why do we have to do anything? We've got a mission to finish.
Waxer: We should do something. I say we take her with us.
Boil: You can't be serious. She'll only slow us down. Look, she's afraid of us.
Waxer: Not us. Quick, hide!
Boil: That was a recon unit. We'd better get moving.
Waxer: We can't leave her here.
Boil: [sighs] Fine, we'll take her.
Waxer: Be careful.
Boil: Don't worry, Waxer. I don't think she's armed. Ow! Little tail-head bit me.
Waxer: Stop, stop. You're scaring her. She probably thinks we're droids. It's all right. See? I'm flesh and blood, just like you.
Boil: She looks half starved. Uh, here.
Numa: Nerra. Nerra.
Waxer: No, I'm Waxer. He's Boil.
Numa: Nerra. Nerra.
Boil: Oh, you made a friend. Mission accomplished. [sighs] Can we go now?
Waxer: Come on, kid. Come on.
Boil: Look, she doesn't even want to go. Little monster was fine before we came along, so let's move.
Numa: [whines]
TX-20: Sergeant, are the creatures ready?
Sergeant B1 Battle Droid: I starved them like you ordered, sir.
Gutkurr: [roars]
Sergeant B1 Battle Droid: Uh, are you sure they will not attack us?
TX-20: I need a test to verify my theory.
Sergeant B1 Battle Droid: Uh, sir. What are you doing? Oh, no. [muffled screams] Ow! Not my motivator!
TX-20: As I calculated, the creatures require organic meat.
Sergeant B1 Battle Droid: Well, that's a relief.
TX-20: It will not be for the clones. They will provide a most generous supply.
Numa: [panting]
Waxer: I wonder what happened to her family.
Boil: They're probably dead. Hopefully, she'll survive this mess.
Waxer: So, what happens to her? I mean, after we leave.
Boil: I don't know. Ah, don't get any ideas. We're not taking her with us.
Waxer: She's gone.
Boil: I'm sure the little biter will turn up.
Waxer: Hey. There you are.
Numa: [laughs]
Boil: How'd she get in front of us?
Numa: Nerra. Nerra!
Waxer: No, don't go that way! That's where the recon droid went.
Boil: Waxer, let her go.
Waxer: I'm not just gonna let the droids get her.
Boil: I'm just trying to keep you alive! I'll be darned if I know why.
Waxer: Where's she going?
Waxer: Wait! Hold on, there!
Waxer: Hey, there you are.
Boil: [sighs] Good, you caught her. You know, I have binders, if we need them. What?
Boil: What are we doing here, anyway?
Waxer: I guess this was her home. Poor little thing. She lost it all.
Numa: [sniffles] [cries]
Waxer: It's okay now. We're here to help.
Numa: [crying]
Boil: Don't cry, kid. We'll keep you safe. I... I promise.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: The men set, Cody? What is it?
Commander Cody: Waxer and Boil are not responding. They never returned from scouting.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: That isn't like them. They may have run into trouble.
Commander Cody: Sergeant, use the high-powered transmitter to see if you can reach Waxer and Boil.
Trooper Sergeant: Yes, sir!
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Let's get the rest of the men moving. The others will catch up.
TX-20: They are on the move. Sergeant, the attack is coming. Release the beasts. It is time to execute my plan.
Sergeant B1 Battle Droid: Roger, roger.
Gutkurr: [roars]
Boil: It's the commander. We're way overdue, Waxer. We're going to end up polishing R2 units!
Waxer: Wait. How are we gonna explain all this... Her?
Boil: You're asking me?
Waxer: Maybe if we hurry back we can tell them we ran into a little trouble.
Boil: Oh, that's for sure.
Waxer: And our transmissions were jammed by the droids.
Boil: It's worth a try. But mark my words, this will end badly.
Numa: Gutkurr! Gutkurr!
Gutkurr: [growling]
Boil: I think I know why the kid never came back here. You see what happens when we don't follow orders? [grunts]
Waxer: Let's get out of here.
Gutkurr: [growls]
Boil: These suckers won't give up!
Waxer: You grab the gun and I'll hold them back.
Gutkurr: [hiss] [snarls]
Gutkurrs: [growl]
Trooper: They're not stopping!
Trooper (2): Aim for their eyes!
Trooper: Look out! Look out!
Trooper (2): Fall back!
TX-20: The Republic ground troops have been routed, Emir.
Wat Tambor: What was that?
TX-20: I calculate the remaining clones are attempting a desperate final offensive. Their chances of success against us are 742 to 1.
Wat Tambor: You had better be right.
TX-20: I am a droid. I am always right.
Gutkurr: [growls]
Commander Cody: No, wait.
Gutkurr: [hiss]
Wooley: Incredible.
Commander Cody: Quiet, rookie.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Shoot the bridge!
Gutkurr: [growling]
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Don't shoot.
Commander Cody: Waxer, Boil, where have you two slackers been?
Boil: Sir, there is an explanation.
Waxer: We got sidetracked.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: I think I see what sidetracked you.
B1 Battle Droid: The clones have defeated the creatures.
TX-20: Yes, but their numbers are thin. Prepare for their final attack.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Hello, little one.
Numa: [exclaims]
Waxer: She brought us here through the tunnels. Knows her way around them pretty good, sir.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Loonala kwee jannweelo?
Numa: Ooh yana-yana. Wah nerra. Kumee nerra.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: The girl can lead us though the tunnel to the prisoners. Cody, we're going to need a diversion.
B1 Battle Droid: Yup, this is about the worst job in the droid army. Huh? What? And it just went into overtime. What? Oh, oh.
Numa: Bin-bin-kooneena.
Obi-Wan Kenobi: I'll take care of this. You keep her here.
Commander Cody: There they are. Let's go!
Commander Cody: Pull back! Pull back!
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Wa-janeel. Wa-janeel!
B1 Battle Droid: Commander, we have a problem. Uh, the Jedi is freeing the prisoners.
Nilim Bril: Numa! Koma jel ree-kha!
Obi-Wan Kenobi: Waxer, Boil, come with me.
Boil: We're with you, sir.
Waxer and Boil: [grunt]
Boil: Ready, General.
B1 Battle Droid (2): Setting alpha five or six. Where's the override? [screams]
Numa: Nerra?
Twi'leks: [yelling]
TX-20: [meniacal laughing] You lose, General Kenobi.
Twi'leks: [shouting]
TX-20: Does not compute. Does not compute. Does not compute. Does not...
Twi'leks: [more shouting]
Mace Windu: Great job getting rid of those cannons. Now we have a more difficult objective. We must take the capital and free this world.
Waxer: See ya later, little one.
Boil: Hey, Numa. Stay out of trouble. Don't be afraid. We'll be back.
Numa: Nerra! Nerra! Nerra!
Waxer: Sir, what is that she keeps calling us?
Obi-Wan Kenobi: "Nerra." It means "brother".



Ep 22 - Hostage Crisis

Greenberg Staff Writer: Brian Larsen Directed by Giancarlo Volpe  Danger looms! Despite recent victories in the Outer Rim, criminal minds plot at the very heart of the Republic! The bounty hunter Cad Bane has assembled some of the deadliest criminals in the galaxy and plans a daring attack to seize members of the Senate. What can be the aim of this despicable act? Here we go. "Attention, attention. "This is a restricted area. "No landing is permitted without permission. "Violators will be prosecuted to the full extend of the law. " Put up your hands. I've got business with the Senate. How about you fall a step aside? On your knees. Raise your hands, slowly. Son, I wouldn't be so hasty if I were you. Cuff him. Where's that coming from?! I see the shooter up in the tower. - Over there. - Aah! You two, get these uniforms on and get this platform clear. "Base to platform, what was all that? Report. " Protesters against the war, we've taken care of them. Finish getting those uniforms on and clear this platform now. Everybody else, follow me. Hey, I'm supposed to be on a meditative retreat. We should go away together. I know a place far from here where no one would recognise us. Yeah, it would be like we're actually husband and wife, instead of Senator and Jedi. I I can't, Annie. What do you mean you can't? It's only two weeks, we'll be back before anyone even notices we're gone. I have to bring this bill before the Senate. It's important. More important than the way you feel about me? Not more important, but important. The work I do, the work we both do, is in service to the Republic. To protect those who would otherwise be powerless to protect themselves. Of course, but those are ideals. Isn't our love more important to you? - But I - No, no "but". To me there's nothing more important than the way I feel about you. Nothing. Anakin, don't be so -- - You don't believe me. - I didn't say -- I'll prove it. Just watch. When I finished constructing my lightsaber, Obi-Wan said to me "Anakin, this weapon is your life. " This weapon is my life. No, Anakin, I can't. A Jedi lightsaber is Wow, it's heavy than I thought. It's yours. Believe me now? If all you want to do is make fun of me, - I think you should just go. - That's not what I want. Not at all. Stop! You know what to do. I'll figure it out. You better not fail me, bubble brain. Don't worry, I'll have the power out in no time. The rest of you come with me. - But Senator Organa, it just wouldn't be - Quick, hide! The situation cannot be delayed. Now stand aside. I apologise for my abruptness. Oh, Senator Organa, how good to see you. What is it? Senator Filo has called a meeting in the lobby before we vote on the Enhanced Privacy Invasion Bill. Right, Privacy Invasion Bill. We must hurry if we are to stop the vote. Coming, Senator Amidala? Of course. Quietly Guard change happens now. Here we go. Now let's go talk to some Senators. Help me. No! Aah! We can not allow the Chancellor to move this Enhanced Privacy Invasion Bill forward. We are all in agreement then. Morning, Senators. You should all consider yourselves to be in my power. As long as everybody behaves this will be quick and painless. Do nothing and it will al be over soon. I don't know who you think you are, but I for one have no intention of listening to this kind of insolence. All right then. If you all gather at the centre of this lovely atrium my co-workers and I will relieve you of any communication devices. I see five of them here in the room. - If we -- - What are you going to do? It's not like we carry weapons. Chancellor Palpatine. What is it, Senator Orn Free Taa? I think you should see this. Sorry to bother you, Chancellor, but I've taken control of the east wing of your Senate building. The occupants are now my hostages. If you care about them, I'd advise you to free Ziro the Hutt from the detention centre. You should know that the Republic does not take kindly to such threats. If you have attempted such a fool-hardy action as to kidnap a Senator, I assure you it will be met with appropriate force. This ought to do it. What's going on? I'm in control. I make the rules now. Orn Free Taa, help me with this door. It's no use, sir. Someone's gotten into the central control panel. They've triggered the security system. The Senate buildings have sealed themselves. This is Chancellor Palpatine, there is an emergency at the Senate Building. Jedi Council, come in. Is anyone there? That's no use either, sir. They've cut off all communication with the outside. Hand over your communication devices please. I can't let them search me. What? Why not? I have something they must not find. What is it? Well, hello there little lady. And who might you be? I am Padme Amidala. Senator from Naboo. And I demand that you release us immediately. The Galactic Senate will not treat with with terrorists. Ain't you awful young and pretty to be a senator? Skywalker?! After him! Hello, come in. Anyone there? This is General Skywalker, Chancellor Palpatine, can you hear me? My dear boy, I'm glad to know you're there and all right. What is going on down there? I hear it too. Coming from up ahead. "They've sealed the entire building. "Nobody can get in. And we can not get out. " It's up to you. You have to get to the power control room and turn off the security seal. You have two more floors to check. Come on. We've got two more floors to check. You take downstairs, I'll go up. We'll meet on the other side. No lightsaber cuts. Interesting. What happened? Where's the droid? The droid's gone, but there's good news. The Jedi's unarmed. What? It doesn't look like he has his lightsaber. Go, bring him back to me. Woopsie! Hurry, hurry, hurry. - The lightsaber, I've got it. - What? Why do you have a Jedi's lightsaber? The question is whether we should try and get it back to Ana the Jedi Knight. Or use it ourselves. Everybody quiet. I've got a call to make. So here's what you're going to do. First you're going to make a pardon disc, you can give it to your friend there. Hmm, me? My ship will come and pick him up and take him to the prison. Once Ziro has been released and is handed to me, then your associates will be released. Understand? Oh, I do. But I feel it is my duty to warn you that you will end up paying for this outrage. I can live with that. Come on, open the door. I won't hurt you. Well, well What have we here? Blast it! Tie your little pet up. We'll bring him to Bane. Here's the pardon disc. Let's go. Why do I have to go to the jail for this? Move it. Sorry, Senator. But everyone has a job to do. Hurry up. Young Skywalker. Not so impressive without your lightsaber, are you, Jedi? Toss him in with the others. Arriving at the prison now. Unlock the doors. Oh, it's so bright out here! Why couldn't they do this at night when it's cooler? Go and get the parting gifts. Oh, look at Senator Orn Free Taa, he looks so unhappy. Now get me as far away from Coruscant as possible, now! Well, Mr Chancellor, thanks to your calm leadership, the crisis has passed. I got what I want, so I'll return your Senate and your Senators. Enjoy them, but don't try anything until the sun has set. Understand? We are to rendezvous back at the Senate building. What?! No, no, no, no! The Outer Rim, not the Senate, you stupid machine! I don't want to go to the Senate! We need to get to the landing platform. - Is everything ready? - Yep, yep. Turn on the field. If you so much as breath on one of these lasers, the whole room will blow up. Senators, Jedi, I bid you all the most respectful farewell. Let's go. All clear! Sir, are you all right? Yes, yes, I'm fine. Mission accomplished, sir. The Chancellor is safe. Well done, trooper. You were foolish to think you could get away with this, bounty hunter? Now lay down your arms and come quietly. No, Chancellor. I am afraid it is you who have been foolish with your Senators' lives. One false move and the east wing of the Senate Building goes up in smoke. Please, Annie, wake up. You win, bounty hunter. Holster! Stand down. What are you looking so sad about? The bounty hunter said we should just sit here. I think we should just sit here. Well, that's not a very good idea. Come on. Let's get going. Too bad I don't have my lightsaber. You mean this? I found it where you dropped it. Now, quickly, we don't have much time. Well, Hutt, it doesn't look like prison had too adverse an effect on you. Ooh, you can't imagine the unspeakable things I've suffered! The horror! I doubt I'll ever really recover! How about some dead Senators as pay back? Another daring rescue, Master Jedi. I do my best, Senator. Congratulations on a job well done, bounty hunter. Time to pay up, Hutt. I don't work for free.

Ep 1 - Holocron Heist

Narrator: Jedi trapped on Felucia! Clones are surrounded by droid forces. Their only hope is to escape on Republic gunships waiting to land on the embattled surface. Jedi cruisers have managed to blow a hole in the droid defenses and have sent gunships to the rescue.

Warthog, protect the gunships. I will take out the fighters.

They made it through the first wave.

Concentrate all fire on the cruiser on the left.

I can't shake these two droids!

Come around and I'll try to get them off your tail.

General!

Look out!

That was close.

If those fighters got through, then our gunships can't be far behind.

Prepare the troops to evacuate.

- Go! Go! - Come on!

Come on, grunts! We are leaving!

Cut to:

Anakin: Ahsoka should be back from her jungle patrol by now.

Obi: I'll try to contact her again. Ahsoka, where are you? Ahsoka, what is your location?

Ahsoka [over comlink] : About six klicks east, Master. Weve engaged the enemy, and weve got them on the run. 

[rumbling blasts]

Obi: Theyre here to extract us. Were leaving.

Ahsoka [over comlink] : What? Wha We cant retreat now, Master. Ive broken through!

[screen pan to Anakin, waving Troopers onto the hovering Gunship.]

Anakin: Move it, trooper! Come on, double time!

Ahsoka [over comlink] : The droids are retreating. 

Obi-wan: Were outnumbered. You must evacuate. That is an order!

Ahsoka [over comlink] : Master Skywalker taught me never to let up when the tinnies are on the run. 

Obi-wan: They are running back here to regroup with the main force. You are putting your troops lives in danger, young one. You will get on the gunship when we arrive. 

Anakin: Wheres Ahsoka?

Obi-wan [exasperated] : Following your teachings. 

Anakin: Is she winning?

Obi-wan: For now. 

[the republic gunship rises over the hostile terrain, carrying Obi-wan, Anakin, and a battalion of Troopers to Ahsokas location. As they fly over head they spot her, lightsaber drawn, deflecting blaster beams and pressing on.]

Obi-wan: Shes not stopping. 

*Anakin knits his brows with disapproval*

Anakin : Land in front of them. 

Ahsoka : What are you doing!?

Anakin: Get in the ship, now.

Ahsoka: Cant you see theyre retreating?!

Anakin: Theyre about to overrun you, Ahsoka.. You just cant see it. Now, follow orders and get in the ship. 

*Scene change*

Mace Windu: Padawan Ahsoka, do you feel Master Kenobis description of the incident is accurate?

Ahsoka: Yes, my Masters. 

Yoda: More to add, do you?

Ahsoka: I know I was wrong. I just got so caught up in my own success. I didnt look at the battle as a whole. I wasnt being disobedient. I just...forgot. 

Anakin: Masters, this incident is my responsibility. Because of Ahsokas advanced abilities, I forgot how young she is. I gave her more freedom than I should have. 

Mace Windu: That may be, but it doesnt excuse what happened on Fulcia. I think she needs some time away from the battlefield. 

Yoda: On archive security, reflect on your actions you can, Padawan. 

Ahsoka: Guard duty? For how long?

Mace Windu: Longer now.




Ep 2 - Children of the Force

A thief hunted! In a daring assault, Anakin Skywalker and his Padawan, Ahsoka, boarded the warship of cunning bounty hunter Cad Bane to recover a stolen holocron containing a list of the galaxy's force-sensitive children and future Jedi knights. After a desperate chase and duel with the villain, Anakin and his troops defeated Bane but were forced to evacuate his doomed vessel without the holocron. How many made it off this time? Just us. Denal, good job frying that bounty hunter. - Let's get some grub. - You hungry? I'll catch up. So what now? We get the injured to the medical bay. General, there's something I think you should see. Trooper, are you all right? Must've been hit in the head. It's blood, sir. And it sure isn't from any of our men. Wait! You're injured. That might be serious. You're no clone. Admiral, lock down the hyperspace rings! Hurry! What could possibly have happened since I last spoke with you? It's Bane. Lock those rings now. - No, lock them all down. Hurry. - Deactivating hyperspace rings. We'll have to inform the Council. It is most unfortunate Bane was allowed to escape again. With access to the names and locations of the most force-sensitive children in the Republic. Inflict devastating damage on the Jedi Order he could. We've discovered Bane's working with the separatists. There are thousands of children on that list. Which will he go after first? Small chance there is, through the force, the Council may detect them. I have delivered what you wanted. The Jedi were no problem. Anything else I can help you with? I need test subjects. Choose four children and bring them to Mustafar. I will take care of them. Kidnapping innocent children? Seems like a small-time crime for the likes of you. Among the children of the Jedi, there are no innocents. Sure, sure. As long as I get paid, it makes no difference to me. A jungle world. Dome cities I see. Rodia it is. A house in Kay Tap Square. I see it too. There's an ocean planet, home to Nautolans, Glee Anselm? Glee Anselm I see not. I sense A place I've been to before. Waterfalls. Naboo. Jan-Gwa. A village, southern sector. Sense it strongly, I do. The Gungan child was screaming. The future you see, young Skywalker. To Naboo you must go. Cad Bane you will find. With you, take your Padawan. You are certain there is no child on Glee Anselm? Into the shadow of the dark side taken the child was. Shrouded is his fate from us. Great the loss is. But more children in danger there are. I shall leave for Rodia immediately. Find more younglings we will. Your son is strong with the force. He will make a fine Jedi. Master Ropal said the day would come for him to go to the Temple, but not for some time. Master Ropal was unaware of the danger your son is in. Jedi imposters have been roaming the galaxy, stealing the future younglings. For your son's protection, I'm going to have to take him now. He is my only child. Look into this. It will relax you. Let's hope we have arrived in time. If you're looking for my son, Jedi, he's not here. Where is he? Open the door. You'll never get him. - Where is the bounty hunter? - Bounty hunter? He was a Jedi. Jedi do not carry blasters. What have I done? General Skywalker, they told us you were coming. Has the Gungan family been notified? Captain Lunker here is in charge of the operation. He will take you to Jan-Gwa city. Let me take the lead, Master. I've got a score to settle. All right, go with the Gungan. I'll be there shortly. Don't move, sleemo. You weren't the child I was expecting to find. Obviously. You're quite clever, but naive. Looks like I win. I think I've earned the right to wear this again. Your daughter is safe now. Do you really believe that? We know you've taken at least two children. - Where are they? - Beyond your reach. - Who are you working for? - I work alone. It is only a matter of time before we locate the holocron. Make it easier on yourself. What are you going to do, Jedi, torture me? I think the fear of whoever you work for outweighs your fear of us. This conversation is over. We tore the ship apart. There's no sign of the holocron or the kids. Did you check the ship's navigation records? They were wiped clean before he landed on Naboo. We'll have to use the force to make him talk. I don't think Bane is that weak. Maybe if we all concentrated on his mind together. Using the force to compel a strong mind to cooperate is risky. There is a danger that his mind could be destroyed in the process. Do we have another choice? You will take us to the holocron. Jedi mind tricks don't work on me. You will take us to the holocron. Forget it. You will take us to the holocron. I won't. And you will take us now! I will take you. Get out of my head. Perhaps we should try again. I've had enough of that. I'll take you to the holocron. You'll get your children back. The chancellor wants a report on our progress. Tell him this is not Republic business. It's an internal Jedi affair. I'm sorry to disagree, but as long as the Jedi are acting as a military, we should report to the chancellor, even on internal matters such as this. Well, then, I guess you just volunteered to go. - Give the chancellor my regards. - Wait a minute. I agree. Report back here when you are finished. This could be a trap, Master. You sure you don't need us to go? Of course it's a trap, Skywalker. I will contact you when we find the children. What if they don't find those kids? They will, snips. Come on. The coordinates. The coordinates are cross 7RB71. That will take us into the far Outer Rim, neutral space. Do you want your holocron and your kids or not? Anakin, it is good to see you. Your Excellency. Excuse us, child. I understand you made an important arrest in the plot to destroy the Jedi. Do you think a simple bounty hunter could create such a plan? I believe someone else, someone much more powerful was behind this. I don't think it was Dooku. And have you any clues as to who it may be? Not yet, chancellor. Have patience, my boy. There, there, child. Soon you will cry no more. Master, subjects of this age rarely survive the slave conditioning procedure. And I'm afraid the risk is necessary. The natural talent these children possess is too great to be wasted by the Jedi. I foresee an army of force-talented spies in my service, trained in the dark side to peer into every corner of the galaxy from afar. And my enemies would be helpless against such vision. If the surgery fails, I will have lost nothing. We'll be fine, Cody. - Stay here and watch the ship. - Yes, sir. I'll keep the ship running. I do not sense any children nearby. Neither do I. Where are you keeping the children? The children are safe. But first, there is your precious holocron. Let me get it for you. No more of your tricks. Blast! You certainly stepped in it this time. So long, Jedi. Now what do we do? Well, the piloting systems are clean. - Check the landing gear? - Double-checked it. I have the feeling Master Windu and Obi-Wan could've used our help. I don't like being out of the action either, but somebody's got to do this job. And it always ends up being us. Bane picked up a lot of volcanic ash on his travels. What have you got, Artoo? Looks like Bane erased his navigation records, but not his fuel computer. So? If we cross the list of planets we know he visited with the distance he traveled We may be able to calculate where else he went. That's a new one. It's an old Jedi trick we use to track down smugglers. Okay, let's see. Glee Anselm, Rodia, Mustafar, - Naboo. - Wait. Mustafar? There were no children on Mustafar. It's a mining world, very remote. Probably stopped there to refuel. That explains the ash. But it was six systems out of his way. Maybe he met up with whoever he's working for. It's worth a look, isn't it? Anything to get out of this hangar. I've got the holocron. Anytime, Cody. We're coming up on Mustafar. Artoo, begin the landing cycle. A starship is approaching. It is not the bounty hunter. This was unexpected. Evacuate the children to my secondary facility. I'm afraid this installation is lost. We must destroy all the evidence. Turn off the gravity supports and let the building sink into the lava. - I beg your pardon, sir. - Just do as I say. You sure this is the right place? We're gonna find out. I sense something, Master, and I don't like it. It's the dark side, Ahsoka. This is the right place. Did you hear that? Yeah, I heard it. The question is, where are they? This way. All gravity supports off. Quick, the Jedi are coming. Turn out the lights. Hurry, hurry. We're too late. I can sense they're still here. Be careful of the younglings. I know! - The panel's fried. - Where's Artoo? Be quiet. It's okay. The base was completely destroyed, Master, and so was any clue who's behind this. Most unfortunate this is. And we still have Bane. He got away again? The important thing is that the children are safe and we've recovered the holocron. The list is intact, and there is no evidence it was copied. Still, the future of all Jedi uncertain is. Move forward cautiously we must. May The Team Be With You for La Fabrique




Ep 12 - The Mandalore Plot

star wars theme] male announcer: Diplomacy or Deception? The council of neutral systems Speaks for over 1,500 worlds who Want to stay out of the war. But rumors have reached the Republic senate, suggesting that The council's new leader, Duchess satine of mandalore, Is secretly building her own Army to fight for the Separatist cause. Now jedi master obi-wan kenobi Has been sent to mandalore to Discover the truth behind These claims. [engine whooshing] the duchess awaits you, General kenobi. far be it for me to keep the Duchess waiting. [engines humming] [doors creaking] general kenobi. thank you for meeting with Me, prime minister almec. I welcome you as a servant of The people, but I am troubled by The false rumors that brought You here. Mandalore would never turn Against the republic. The duchess satine values peace More than her own life. oh, I'm aware of the Duchess' views. master kenobi, mandalore's Violent past is behind us. All of our warriors were exiled To our moon, concordia. They died out years ago. hmm. Are you certain? I recently encountered a man who Wore mandalorian armor, Jango fett. jango fett was a common Bounty hunter. How he acquired that armor is Beyond me. well, master kenobi, My shining jedi knight to the Rescue once again. [strange shimmering noise] after all these years, you're Even more beautiful than ever. kind words from a man who Accuses me of treachery. I would never accuse you of Personal wrongdoing, duchess. However, a separatist saboteur Attacked one of our Republic cruisers, A mandalorian saboteur. [blaster firing] you must be mistaken. No mandalorian would engage in Such violence. Not anymore. Where is this prisoner now? he took his own life rather Than submit to questioning. I know these commandos fought in Many wars, often against The jedi. every one of my people is as Trustworthy as I am. I know we sound Defensive, but-- clearly your investigation Was ordered because the senate Is eager to intervene in Our affairs. my investigation was ordered By the jedi council. I stand corrected. General kenobi, perhaps you'd Like to join me on a walk Through the city. [engines whooshing] It's so good to see you again, Obi-wan, despite The circumstances. your peaceful ways have Paid off. Mandalore has prospered since The last time I was here. not everyone on mandalore Believes that our commitment to Peace is a sign of progress. There is a group that calls Itself death watch. I imagine these are the Renegades you're looking for. They idolize violence and the Warrior ways of the past. There are those among us, Certain officials who are Working to root out These criminals. It has been an Ongoing investigation. how widespread is this Death watch movement? it's hardly a movement. It's a small group of hooligans Who choose to vandalize public Places, nothing more. We shall soon have them In custody. We have tracked them down to our Moon, concordia. I hope you're right, duchess. I do not understand why the Arrival of this jedi doesn't Upset you. You promised to support the Death watch forces so we could Overthrow the duchess satine and Her weak peace-loving Government. and I intend to keep My promise. but how? If the republic interferes now, Death watch will not be able to Take over the planet. consider: Once the senate orders Peacekeeping troops to Mandalore, the people will be Surrounded by A military presence. Most distasteful. They will rebel. and rally to death watch. Our insurgency will Grow stronger. yes, and duchess satine Shall fall. a peacekeeper belongs on the Front lines of conflict. Otherwise, he wouldn't be able To do his job. the work of a peacekeeper is To make sure that conflict does Not arise. yes, a noble description, But not a realistic one. is reality what makes a jedi Abandon his ideals? Or is it simply a response to Political convenience? [explosion] [people scaming] are you all right? I'm fine. [people screaming] hooligans couldn't have Arranged an attack of This scale. then this must be the work of An off-worlder. are you sure of that? the sign of the death watch. this goes far Beyond vandalism. This is a political statement Against your government And against you. You're not safe here. I'm taking you back to The palace. I want to interview Everyone here. Nobody leaves this scene. [people shout] You there! I only want to talk. [blaster firing] [lightsaber humming] I don't want to hurt you. Stay back! calhava bru'chun Dralshye'ran! Thud! [people screaming] Se solu, se kad, se Darasuum kote. what is he saying? kadi, se norm'iim. ki, kadi norm'iim. He was speaking in the dialect They use on concordia, our moon. I shall like to visit this Moon of yours. Perhaps I could accompany The body. the concordian moon is a Provence with its own governor. You'll need me to escort you. that won't be necessary. actually, it will. You won't make much progress Without me there, especially Since you've just been involved With the death of a concordian. I didn't kill him. I know. That's why I'm still talking To you. I thought concordia was an Agricultural settlement. before the end of our wars, They turned it into A mining base. The sheer number of mining Facilities here nearly destroyed Our forests. They're finally growing back. [spacecraft humming] duchess satine, you are Most welcome. thank you, governor vizsla. May I present master Obi-wan kenobi, representing the Jedi council. Governor vizsla is one of the Officials I spoke of. He has been working to find the Members of the death watch. I take it you've heard the Rumors about satine, about how She's supposedly leading Mandalore into an alliance with The separatists. my only instructions are to Seek the truth. this was the man who bombed The memorial shrine? yes. He was apparently part of Death watch. a worrisome prospect. If you'll pardon me, general, We must attend to the body. I need a favor from you. Please keep governor vizsla Occupied at dinner. where are you going? I'd like to see one of these Mining facilities for myself. you mean you want to Determine if they're still Operational. I hope to determine They're not. I want you to wear this earpiece So that we can stay in contact, In case you run into trouble While I'm gone. remember that you are here Under my protection. Please try not to cause problems Where none yet exist. think of me as searching For solutions. I have to tell you I'm Opposed to all of this. I'd be disappointed if You weren't. [engine humming] [engine shrieking] [computer beeping] forgive me, duchess. I'm writing a condolence letter To the dead man's family and Making arrangements for them to Retrieve his body. of course, governor. Very proper. General kenobi will join Us shortly. He said he needed to meditate. [wind whistling] [engine humming] [door whooshes] [door slams] doesn't look abandoned to me. [man screams] [lightsaber humming] I am here on a Diplomatic mission under the Protection of duchess satine. we do nwt recognize her rule. [blaster firing] [grunting] Thud! someone is feeding Misinformation directly to the Republic senate, saying that The death watch is taking Over mandalore. Who stands to gain from These lies? death watch, of course. they could not engineer All this. The problem has clearly grown Much larger than we thought. And I suspect some external hard to believe. It would have to be someone At the highest level of Influence among the separatists. but why target me? you lead the council of Neutral systems. Thus, you threaten the Separatists' goals. Take it as a compliment. Someone very powerful is working Towards your downfall. commander wants us to sweep The area and check for any Other jedi until he arrives. this one's harmless enough Without his lightsaber. The boss will love this. [force field humming] [beeping] general kenobi's meditation Is taking a rather long time. you know the jedi. They never do anything By halves. duchess, please acknowledge. may I offer you Another drink? yes, certainly. I'm in a bit of an Awkward spot. I'm being held by the Death watch. sorry, duchess. We're out of ice. sorry to hear that. perhaps we should begin Dinner without general kenobi. there's a tracking function On your comlink. Follow it due east to My location. I don't know if I can do that At the moment. it's extremely urgent. are you not feeling Well, duchess? perhaps some fresh air would Do me good. shall I escort you outside? take a speeder. It's rough terrain. oh, I'll find my way. Never fear. [engine humming] [beeping] yes, sir. Start the machine. Time for the jedi to meet with His fatal accident. with pleasure. [machinery clanking] this is not good. [gears rumbling] where exactly are you? listen for the loud metallic Clanging sound. That would be the machine about To smash me into bits. [computer beeping] [alarm blaring] there's some kind of Disturbance at the entrance. Let's check it out. well, it certainly took you Long enough. you know, I haven't saved You yet. yes, no need to remind me Of that. be patient. I happen to be a bit short on Patience right now. now, let's see. One of these. satine, turn the machine off! I'm trying. satine! [machinery thudding] there! [beeps] look out! [gears whirring] [metallic grinding] [grunting] for a man sworn to peace, you Take an unseemly pleasure in the Injuries of others. for a woman sworn to Nonviolence, you don't seem Troubled that I could have been Killed back there. but you weren't. And yet I still haven't heard Any thanks. well, you certainly haven't Changed much. [door whooshes] [metallic clanking] This is not the way we came in. look there. It's the jedi. [buzzer sounding] [blasters firing] we'll have to stand And fight. Or in your case, just stand. you three, stop him. [blasters firing] [explosion] [grunting] you there. [blaster firing] satine! I'm all right. I'll deal with this. Get to your ships and evacuate. [engines humming] Failure. governor? for generations my ancestors Fought proudly as warriors Against the jedi. Now that woman tarnishes the Very name mandalorian. Defend her if you will. [lightsaber humming] This lightsaber was stolen from Your jedi temple by my Ancestors during the fall of The old republic. Since then, many jedi have died Upon its blade. Prepare yourself to join them. Huah! [lightsabers crashing] [grunting] Huah! [lightsaber humming] Huah! [jet pack whining] [grunting] [breathing heavily] Warriors, finish him! [beeping] [rockets whooshing] satine. [rockets whistling] [explosion] should we go after him, sir? no. There's no time. Don't worry. We'll catch up with the duchess Soon enough. I suppose we're even now. ah. How so? I saved your life. You saved mine. yes, well, Mine was the more daring of the Two rescues. [clicks tongue] [engines humming] but if pre vizsla fled, we Have no way of learning how Widespread death watch Really is. it's obvious the separatists Are supporting the death watch. I disagree. I told you I wanted to stay out Of this conflict. given the current situation, I'm afraid that may no longer Be possible. I thought you of all people Would understand my position on This matter. I will never be a part of This war. reporting for escort Duty, general. oh, anakin. Am I glad to see you. hmm. You sound tired. the peaceful ways of the Locals wore me out a bit.


Ep 13 - Voyage of Temptation

Male narrator: A royal welcome! Sent to investigate Allegations that mandalore Was joining count dooku's Separatists, obi-wan kenobi was Reunited with an old friend, The duchess satine of Kalevala. While satine claimed Mandalore's intentions were To remain neutral during The war, an attack on the Capital city led obi-wan to the Discovery of a terrorist Organization known As death watch. Now the duchess travels to The senate so she can Plead her case against her Involvement in the war, as The jedi prepare a defense Against her opponents. You know your Marching orders. The safety of the duchess satine Is of the utmost importance. The death watch will stop at Nothing to assassinate her Before she pleads her case to The senate. The death watch may be Backed by the separatists, So stay sharp. Artoo? Use your scanners to Probe for any suspicious droid Activity. [r2-d2 beeps affirmatively] Anything else, sir? No, that will be all. [beeping] Yes? The duchess and her retinue Requests your presence. Very well. I sense some anxiety From you about the duchess. She couldn't be in safer hands. Yes, i know. Then why Never mind. It's all in the past. Oh, so you're close to her? I knew her. A long time ago. All secure here. Let's move on to the next Sector. Beep! [eerie whirring] War is intolerable! We have been deceived into Thinking that we must be A part of it. I say the moment we committed To fighting, we already lost. Excuse me, your grace, Are you suggesting we Oppose the war on Humanitarian grounds? I'm going to oppose it As an affront to life itself. As the designated regent Of 1,500 systems, I speak for thousands Of worlds that have urged me To allow them to stay Neutral in this war. And yet some might Argue that the strongest Defense is a swift and decisive Offense. You are quite the general Now, aren't you, master kenobi? Forgive me for interrupting, Your highness. I meant no disrespect. Really? Senators, i presume you are Acquainted with the collection Of half-truths and hyperbole Known as obi-wan kenobi? Your highness is too kind. You're right. i am. Allow me to introduce My fellow jedi Anakin skywalker. Your servant, my lady. I remember a time When jedi were not generals But peacekeepers. We are protectors, highness-- Yours, at the moment. We fight for peace. What an amusing Contradiction. What master skywalker Means is that we are acting At the behest of your highness To protect you from the death Watch and the separatists who Don't share your neutral Point of view. I asked for no such Thing. That may be so, but A majority of your court did. I do not remember you as one To hide behind excuses. I do not remember you as one To shrink from responsibilities. I am certain we all agree. Duchess satine and general Kenobi have a proven there are Two sides to every dilemma. Indeed. Now, in regard to the senate Vote, we think-- I think a multitude makes Discord, not good counsel. Right again, my lady. There may be two sides to Every dilemma, but the duchess Only favors hers. [r2-d2 chirping] I'll check out the south Quadrant. Careful over there. It's dark. Yeah, very funny, mixer. [r2-d2 chirps frantically] Stop messing around. That's not funny. [r2-d2 beeps] [sighs] droids. Thud! [gurgling] A republic military Presence is the only sure Defense against the separatists. Even extremists can Be reasoned with. Perhaps, if one can Be heard over a the clanking of Their battle droids. The sarcasm of a soldier. The delusion of a dreamer. Duchess, master jedi, It's been a long trip. I think we could all use A little rest and refreshment. Hear, hear. Now let us put politics Aside until after dinner. [together] fine! Stand by for lightspeed. Engage. My side's secure. What have you got, redeye? Redeye, you copy? [eerie whirring] [screaming] You and satine Have a history. An extended mission When i was younger. Master qui-gon and i spent A year on mandalore protecting The duchess from insurgents who Had threatened her world. They sent bounty Hunters after us. We were always on the run, Living hand-to-mouth, never Sure what the next day would Bring. Sounds romantic. [eerie whirring] [r2-d2 beeps] A civil war killed most of Satine's people, hence her Aversion to violence. When she returned, she took Rebuilding her world alone. You didn't stay to help her? That would have Been problematic. My duty as a jedi Demanded i be elsewhere. Demanded? But it's obvious you had Feelings for her. Surely that would affect your Decision. Oh, it did. I live by the jedi code. Of course. As master yoda says, "a jedi Must not form attachments. " Yes. But he usually leaves out the Undercurrent of remorse. Beep! Yes, captain? General, something's wrong With skywalker's astromech. Scared him a real good, sir. I've also lost contact with Two of my men. I'm on my way down To assist you. I'll go, master. If there's something dangerous Down there, the clones and i Can handle it. Deep-fried nuna legs. Mmm, delicious. I beg your pardon, senators. Our men are investigating A situation below decks. I respectfully ask you to Wait here until it is settled. All right, men. What's the problem? I'm missing dinner. We're not sure yet, sir, But there's still no sign of Mixer and redeye. What's the matter, buddy? [r2-d2 beeps] I know. i know. But i'm here now. Use your scanners. See if something's out of place. Well, what've we here? Looks like the contents of This box are missing. Or it got up and Walked away. All right, fan out. Separate squads. I'll contact obi-wan. Beep! Please excuse me. Anakin, what have you found? There's a large open Container, and the contents are Missing. And i still have two men Unaccounted for. That's not good. Keep things quiet. I'll stay with the senators. Got it. [r2-d2 beeps] What's up? Did you find something? There you are. Redeye, where have you been? You've had us all worried. Redeye? [eerie whirring] [lightsaber igniting] [deep chirruping] [blaster fire] The lift! Obi-wan. There's assassin probes Down here. One made it up the lift. I'll try to hold the others Here. Quickly! Secure the lifts! [lightsaber igniting] Ah! help! [droid sputtering] There might be one left. Let's spread out and find it. Watch it! [screams] [blaster fire] They're everywhere! Get behind me! Agh! get it off! Agh! agh! [r2-d2 chirps] [electricity crackling] Zap! Zap! Do you always Carry a deactivator? Just because i'm a pacifist Doesn't i mean i Won't defend myself. Now you sound like a jedi. Zap! Good work, men. You too, buddy. [r2-d2 beeps triumphantly] Assassin droid. How did that monster end up In the hold? Question is, Who smuggled him onboard? Just like that Swarm of venom-mites On draboon, remember? How could i forget? I still have the scar. Begging your pardon, duchess. I distinctly remember Carrying you to safety. I meant the scar i got after You fell and dropped me. Oh. yes. I'm looking for the droid That services the cargo bay. Uh, yes sir, Are all those creatures dead? That's what i'm Trying to find out. You're in charge of the cargo Manifest, right? Uh, yes. I have it right here. Well, where did they Come from? It is right here, On the manifest. "for immediate delivery To coruscant: One container marked 'medical supplies. ' There's no name on this chart! There is no indication of Who shipped it. No, sir, Just the senate stamp Always accepted For transport here aboard the coronet. one of our four distinguished senators appears to be a traitor. i sense it too. [chirping] it looks like one of our little visitors is still alive. i have an idea how to expose the turncoat. return to the hull of the ship. destroy the last assassin droids. i'll find out which of the senators is the traitor. duchess, you are not eating. i have no appetite. begging your pardon, you must keep up your strength. by all means, be my guest, senator. if you insist. ah! dessert! excellent! this morsel might prove too much even for the legendary appetite of orn free taa. enjoy. on second thought, it wouldn't agree with me. my theory is our little friend will attack the duchess and anyone who defends her. anyone, that is, except the traitor who programmed it. take it away! please! obi-wan, this line of questioning borders on torture! oh, i assure our pacifist duchess that all is under control. i'm a trying to expose a bigger threat. interesting. the droid displays unusual hostility toward the honorable kin robb but it seems to like you, senator merrik. well, prince? really, general kenobi, you're quite clever. [gasps] [short-circuiting] [lightsaber igniting] [gasps] you're coming with me. [groans] Anakin, tal merrik Is the traitor, and he's Taken satine hostage. [whispering] Copy that, but i've got Problems of my own right now. Cody, rex, have you Found anything? All quiet over here, sir. [chirping] Wait a minute [blaster firing] [electricity crackling] Thanks, little guy. Well, we found the Little ones. What about the mother? Haven't seen it. [mother droid shrieks] [grunts] [blaster fires] [blaster firing] No, please, i beg you. [blaster fires] Monster! You're a horrid monster! Get used to it. Did you find them? No, but i've stationed Troopers at every escape pod. Merrik will try to signal His allies for help. We have to find him. This may not be the Time to ask, but were you and Satine, ever I don't see how That has any bearing on the Situation at hand. Death watch command. Tal merrik here. Senator merrik. Have you completed your mission? Yes, sir. I have the duchess, but i'll Need help getting her away. Very good. Reinforcements Are on their way. I'll take care of this, Obi-wan. You? Go find your girlfriend. Right. Uh, no, anakin, she's not My [blaster fire] [lightsaber igniting] Come in, kenobi. You're expected. Tal merrik, you are Under arrest. Release the duchess. I took the precaution Of wiring the ship's engines To explode. I press this remote, And we all die. Obi, if you have Any respect for me, you will Not take such risks with so Many people's lives at stake. Satine Don't. Beep! This is merrik. Stand by to disengage. Say farewell, duchess. Obi-wan, it looks like I may never see you again. I don't know quite how to say This, but i've loved you From the moment you came to My aid all those years ago. I don't believe this. Satine, this is Hardly the time or place for All right. Had you said the word, I would have Left the jedi order. That is touching. Truly, it is. But it's making me sick, And we really must be going. You have the romantic Soul of a slug, merrik. Ow! And slugs are so often Trod upon. Interesting turnabout, But even if i do not Deliver the duchess alive To the separatists, i still win. The second i'm away, I'll hit the remote and blow the coronet to bits. I will not allow that. What will you do? If you shoot me, you prove Yourself a hypocrite to every Pacifist ideal you hold dear. And you, kenobi. You are no stranger to violence. You'd be hailed as a hero by Everyone on this ship Almost everyone. Come on, then. Who will strike first and Brand themselves A cold-blooded killer? Anakin What? He was going to blow up The ship. Obi-wan, i General skywalker, The last of the droids Have been defeated, sir. Very good, cody. I must get back to The business of diplomacy. As you say, duchess. Some other time. A job well done, Master jedi. Thank you, chancellor. Your excellency. How ironic to meet again, Only to find we're on Opposing sides. The needs of your people Are all that matter. They couldn't be in a better Hands with you to guide their Future. Kind words indeed from A mindful and committed jedi. And yet What? I'm still not sure About the beard. Why? What's wrong with it? It hides too much of Your handsome face. [laughing] What was that all about? A very remarkable woman. She is indeed.

Ep 14 - Duchess of Mandalore

Narrator: A diplomatic mission! As dissent threatens to tear Apart the peaceful Mandalore system, Duchess Satine struggles To protect her people against the escalating violence. Betrayed by two of her trusted allies, Satine now travels To Coruscant. There, she hopes to convince the senate that a destructive Splinter group, Death Watch, does not represent the entire Mandalorian government.

?: With your Death Watch army in place, now all we need do Is to sit and wait.

?: But for how long? My men are anxious to fight.

?: Considering the plot we've just set in motion, I assure you, the Republic will oblige you the fight you're looking for. First, send a Death Watch assassin to Coruscant. The duchess of Mandalore must die.

?: Prime minister.

?: You found The Death Watch armies, then?

?: Yes, sir. They are preparing for battle. But if they attack, it would strengthen the people's resolve not to join the Death Watch movement.

The Death Watch will never be strong enough to take over Mandalore without the will of the people. Not if the Republic has a military presence here. Their occupation will turn The death watch from terrorists To liberators in the eyes Of the people. But how can we Stop the republic From coming here? Our fate now lies In the hands of Duchess Satine. It grieves me to say it, But death watch is now A significant, deadly threat. Mandalore is making Great strides To find the leaders Of this terrorist movement. They are not powerful enough To destabilize our government. We will resolve this Without conflict. If the republic gets involved In our affairs, It will only lead To further violence. Thus, I shall reassert Our position of neutrality. Talk of an idealist. No, those are the words Of a pacifist And a people who have chosen Nonviolent action. That may be so, duchess. However, this message Was delivered to my staff Just this morning. I think you shall find it Most illuminating. The actions By our government Have taken us into a period Of civil war. To acknowledge it Would be to invite panic In the streets. Duchess? Yes. Deputy minister jerec. He's a dear friend. It is more than Mere possibility, More than eventuality. It is here. Stop! Deputy minister jerec Is an honorable man. He would never commit such lies To the record. The Mandalorian government Holds no secrets From its people. If only that were true. Beep! Death watch is far stronger Than we once thought. If we are to combat them Effectively, We must have Republic assistance. Instead, this government Acts out of pride And rejects the help Of the jedi. It's not true. It's not true! The duchess Satine Will ultimately cause Our defeat. Make no mistake. Republic intervention Is absolutely necessary. This isn't right. Something here isn't right. I wish to speak To jerec immediately. Sadly, deputy minister jerec Perished this morning In a death watch bombing On kalevala. Let us ensure that his death Was not in vain. Let us commit Our military might to defending The Mandalorian people. Defending? You mean to occupy our home. You would trample our right To self-determination. We mean to save your people. You will turn our planet Into a military target, Which will bring the war to us. Mandalore must remain A neutral system. The vote shall commence In the next session.

Obi-Wan: Duchess! Satine, wait. I just heard What happened in the senate.

Satine: You're sweet to be concerned, But I promise, I'll be all right.

Obi-Wan: I am concerned. We're friends, are we not?

Satine: Yes, friends And nothing more.

Obi-Wan: Satine, As your friend, I don't think you should make any decisions in this state of mind.

Satine: This state of mind? And what state of mind would that be, precisely?

Obi-Wan: What I'm saying is, any person would be hysterical by now, but

Satine: Hysterical? The Republic is attempting to force its will upon innocent people.

Obi-Wan: I only meant that

Satine: Frankly, I'm surprised you're not hysterical. Perhaps if more citizens got hysterical, they'd be more inclined to speak up when the Republic tramples on their rights.

Obi-Wan: Rushing in like this, it's- it's foolhardy.

Satine: Ironic words from a man who spends his days running hither and yon, wielding his lightsaber with deadly force as if on a crusade. Why should I listen to someone who so frequently relies on violence? In my opinion, You're the one who's foolhardy.

What's happening? It's the navigation system. Get her out of here. There's a platform ahead. I'll try to get closer. No, stop! Aramis! Jump! What do you mean, No charges are to be filed? None at all? Someone tried to kill me. The controls on my speeder Were compromised. Sadly, my dear, There is no proof Anyone tampered with anything. I'm afraid it might've been Just an accident. An accident? And it just happened to coincide With me defending my home world? I agree with Satine. Well, finally. It proves what I've Been saying all along. Death Watch is out of control. The Republic must step in And help. No, wait. I didn't You can't keep them Reined in, obviously. So we will. This is patently offensive. You can't do this. Unfortunately, It's up to the senate now. I'm sure they'll make a reasoned And thoughtful decision. Satine, I just heard About your accident. This government will Satine, Tell me what happened. I'm fine. I wasn't hurt. I didn't want to worry you. Well, I'afraid, On that count, You've failed spectacularly. Look what happened. Look what happened? This attack proves I've upset someone. I must be on the right track. This attack proves Your enemies are here Even on Coruscant. You're not going to let Republic authorities Handle this, are you? You're not backing down. Republic authorities? Certainly not. I'm on my way To the ministry of intelligence Right now to meet my contact. Don't you see? You need your friends with you, Not held at arm's length. In your quest to be Self-reliant, Have you decided To cut your friends Out of your life? I I don't know. Senator, what is it? The senate Completed its vote. They've decided In favor of occupation. When did this happen? The vote was supposed To be tomorrow. It was during your meeting With the chancellor. Your accident accelerated The senate's decision. Republic forces are set to leave For Mandalore At sunrise tomorrow. You see? I was right before. Counting on the republic Is a mistake. I don't have much time. They're following me. You've put yourself In great danger. I will never forget it. I had to come. This is worth it. Where did you get this? Buried deep In the evidence facility At the ministry. It was not easy to find, Believe me. You were right. Someone faked the evidence. The recording Presented to the senate Was not the full recording, But this disc is. You must show the senate. Davu! No. We have a shooting In sector gl-5. Subject identified As duchess Satine kryze. Hands where we can see them. You are coming with us. I didn't kill him. Subject identified We spotted her. She's heading into the alley. Oop, cancel that. She's escaping in a speeder, Heading for section 1-g-44. Duchess Satine escaped again, But I took out an informant. Not sure if he successfully Delivered something to her, But it looked like a handoff. Find her. Whatever she's carrying May compromise our plan. My lord, Everything is going As you instructed. Death watch Yes. The people have been Worked into such a frenzy That when the republic Does arrive, The death watch Will be considered heroes. Excellent. The republic occupation force Is loading their ships And will arrive on time, If the duchess Satine Does not get in the way. The duchess Satine Will not be in the way Much longer. One of the death watch assassins Is taking care of her. Excuse me, sir. If you see this woman, Report her to The local authorities. You know, I don't think he understands us. Let's try someone else. Obi-wan, come in. Obi-wan, are you there? Satine, where are you? Mas amedda has demanded You turn yourself in. I know. Listen to me. Obi-wan, I need your help. Have you seen this woman? Nice disguise. Seeing you all right is Well, it's a relief. You should turn yourself in. We've both sworn A loyalty to the republic. Believe me, Neither one of us Is breaking our oath. And this will prove it. I need to get it Into the proper hands. But the republic guards Are hunting you, Which means Whoever doctored This recording is likely In the government itself. If you set foot Inside the senate, They'll take you. And the disc Will be destroyed Before anyone can see it, Which is why you must Take the disc to Padme. Blast it. Where will you be While I'm in the senate? What if they find you? They won't. I'm going to surrender to them. What? You'll need a distraction To enter the senate freely. I can't risk them searching you Just because you and I Are associates. I'm a jedi. They wouldn't dare. Things are changing, my dear. Excuse me. I believe you are looking for me. The occupation of Mandalore Will usher in a new level Of security for the republic And its fight Against corruption. If there are no objections Supreme chancellor, There has been a development Mandalore's neutrality. The chair recognizes The senator from naboo. I think this should cast A new light on the so-called Evidence we saw earlier. The actions by our government Have taken us into a period Of civil war. To acknowledge it Would be to invite Panic in the streets. Death watch is far stronger Than we once thought. But we have been Training for this. We can stop them. But if we are to combat them Effectively, We must have the temerity To stand strong In the name of peace. And if we are to do so, We must reject Any republic assistance. Instead, this government Will act. It acts not out of pride But for safety. Intervention by the republic Will inflame the opposition. And this is why our government Rejects the help of the jedi. We must listen To the duchess Satine. If we do not, We will ultimately cause Our defeat. All troops will stand down. All troops will stand down. Unacceptable! You promised us We would reclaim Mandalore From these weak-willed cowards. I will order my men to attack. And if you do, You'll hold the planet For perhaps a day. Without the backing Of my forces Or your people, Your revolution will be over Before it begins. A neophyte such as you Wouldn't know these things, But I do. I have other ways To accomplish our goals. Thankfully, With the revelation Of this new information, The occupation of Mandalore Is no longer necessary. The person to thank Is duchess Satine. She found the proof. I require no thanks. Satine. The senate held An emergency session, And republic forces Have been ordered to stand down. Allow me to offer A most sincere apology On behalf Of the entire republic. You are a most loyal servant, And we are all grateful. Yes, grateful. Chancellor, If you and mas amedda Would join me for a moment, We have some logistics To discuss in order to ratify The senate's decision. But for you, This wouldn't have happened. No, it was your Unshakable faith in your people And your determination That brought about this result. I appreciate that. But still, who is behind All of this? Who tampered With that recording? Who tried to convict me Of murder and throw me in jail? I'm not sure. But as you said yourself, Things are changing. And sometimes the line Between friend and foe Is blurred, Now more than ever.


Ep 16 - Cat and Mouse
Narrator: An impenetrable defense. Separatist ships blockade the resource-rich planet of Christophsis, trapping Senator Bail Organa and his relief effort. Desperate to aid the esteemed senator a republic task force under the command of Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker must break the impasse. But time runs short for the senator and the good citizens of Christophsis.

Bail Organa: Separatist forces have overrun our position and we are out of food, water, and munitions. Our situation is desperate.

Anakin Skywalker: Senator Organa? Senator Organa.

Republic Officer: General. Another cruiser's been hit.

Anakin Skywalker: Master Kenobi better get here soon or this is gonna be one short rescue mission.

Wulf Yularen: The Command ship is bearing down on us. Full forward shields! Incoming Fire!

Anakin Skywalker: This isn't gonna be easy.

Trench: Fire all forward cannons. Cut off those Republic supply ships. Separate them from their escort cruisers. I smell fear... and it smells good.

Republic Officer: General, one of the supply ships has been hit.

Anakin Skywalker: Over-fire all reactors. We're gonna blow right past this guy, whoever he is.

Republic Officer: General, a Republic cruiser is coming out of hyperspace behind us.

Anakin Skywlaker: Obi-Wan

Cody: Looks like General Skywalker's already engaged the enemy.

Obi-Wan Kenobi: That's nothing out of the ordinary especially since I gave him direct orders not to.

T1-99: The Republic ship is not breaking off its attack.

Trench: Hold the line. Intensify forward deflectors.

Obi-Wan Kenobi: Anakin, I want you to withdraw.

Anakin Skywalker: Withdraw?

Obi-Wan Kenobi: I brought a new toy that might give us an advantage.

Wulf Yularen: With respect, General, now might not be a bad time to regroup.

Anakin Skywalker: Tell the transports to fall back to Obi-Wan's position. We'll cover their retreat as they escape behind the moon. I don't like this. I hope Obi-Wan knows what he's doing.

T1-99: They are escaping. Should we go after them?

Trench: No. Our orders are to blockade, not chase. I have won this round. Re-cycle the shields and let the cannons reset to a full charge.

Battle Droid: Roger Roger.


Ep 15 - Overlords

"Balance is found in the one who faces his guilt."


-Mysterious message! A transmission has been intercepted far beyond the outer rim, deep in the Crelythiumn system. Why the call has been made and from where cannot be established. But buried in the message is a jedi distress code that has not been used in over 2,000 years. Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and his Padawan Ahsoka are sent to investigate. Fearing a separatist trap, they are to meet with a heavily armed jedi cruiser.-


[whirring]

Anakin: Rex Rex, do you read me? We're at the rendezvous point awaiting your arrival.

Rex: Where are you? Sir, we are at the rendezvous point and there's no sign of you on our scanners.

Anakin: Oh, come on. That's impossible. Something's wrong. We're at the exact coordinates where the distress signal originated, but there's nothing here.

Rex is at the exact same coordinates and he's not here.

Obi-Wan: This is getting interesting.

[breaking up]

Rex: ..Unable to find you. Where are you, sir?

Ahsoka: Something's blocking the signal.

[shuttles electronics powering down]

Obi-Wan: Not good.

Ahsoka: Everything's dead, even the life support.

Anakin: Hmm, this is really strange.

[shuttles electronics powering back up]

Obi-Wan: There. See? Nothing to be concerned about after all.

Ahsoka: Then what's that? It's pulling us towards it.

Obi-Wan: Everyone, strap yourselves in. Looks as though we're going for a ride.

--

Anakin: I must have blacked out.

Obi-Wan: Then who landed the shuttle?

Ahsoka: Not me. Anakin: Mm Where are we?

Ahsoka: Some kind of organic mass. All of our readings indicate that it's bigger than an asteroid. But at least the atmosphere is breathable.

Obi-Wan: Well, this is getting more unusual by the minute. I can't even lock down where in the galaxy we are Or if we are even in our own galaxy.

Anakin: Well, the ship's systems seem ne but for whatever reason, nothing's working.

Ahsoka: Hey! I saw something. A reflection, up on the hill.

Obi-Wan: I don't see anything.

(Woman) Are you the one?

Anakin: What the What? Did you hear that?

Obi-Wan: I didn't hear anything.

(Woman) Are you the one?

Obi-Wan: Hello.

Anakin: Who are you?

Daughter: I am daughter. Are you the one?

Anakin: Uh The one what?

Daughter: I will take you to him.

Ahsoka: Him, who?

Obi-Wan: Did you bring us here?

Daughter: Only he can help you. There is little time. Follow me. We must have shelter by nightfall.

Anakin: And we thought the planet was strange. How about this one?

Obi-Wan: We'll be fine as long as we stay together.

..

Obi-Wan: Have you noticed the seasons seem to change with the time of day?

Anakin: Yeah. Ahsoka: And there are no animals.

Obi-Wan: And you sense it?

Anakin: Mm-hmm, since we arrived. The force is very strong.

Obi-Wan: An intersection unlike anything I've ever felt before. Be wary.

Anakin: Excuse me. Who are you taking us to?

Daughter: The father, of course.

Ahsoka: Of course.

Oi-Wan: And what exactly are you?

Daughter: We are the ones who guard the power. We are the middle, the beginning, and the end.

Anakin: Glad she cleared that up for us.

[low rumbling]

Anakin: Hey! Look out!

Obi-Wan: Thank you.

Ahsoka: You're welcome.

Daughter: It is forbidden for you to touch me.

Anakin: Sorry. I was just saving your life.

Daughter: That was my brother's work. You are in great danger. Wait for me. Do not leave this place.

Anakin: Hey! Wait.

Obi-Wan: Anakin, are you there? Are you all right?

Anakin: Yeah. But our friend here has run off! Go back to the ship and try sending another distress call. I'll follow her and find out how to get off this rock.

Obi-Wan: And if this is a trap?

Anakin: Then I'm not gonna wait around to find out.

Obi-Wan: Anakin, stop! Wait for us to find another way around and meet you. Anakin? So reckless and impatient.

Ahsoka: He'll find her.

Obi-Wan: Yes, and what else?

[distant thunder rumbling]

Ahsoka: Storm's coming.

...

Ahsoka: The ship's gone.

Obi-Wan: Yes, I see that.

Ahsoka: It was here, no question. And look. Everything's dying.

Brother: Did you lose something? You didn't do as you were asked.

Obi-Wan: And what was that?

Brother: My sister said to wait!

Obi-Wan Did she now? Well, we were unfortunately separated. We'd like our ship back if you don't mind.

Brother: Not... Yet.

Brother: Is it true that he is the chosen one?

Obi-Wan: What do you know of such things?

Brother: What is about to happen shall occur whether you like it or not.

Obi-Wan: You are sith.

Brother: Sith? [chuckles] Yes And no. The storms here are quite lethal. If you want to live, I suggest you find shelter.

Ahsoka: What in the universe was that?

Obi-Wan: I'm not quite sure. Quick. There's a cave over there.

...

Anakin: Whoever I'm looking for is in that monastery.

Father: Welcome, my friend.

Anakin: What is it that you want from me?

Father: To learn the truth about who you really are, one that maybe you have known all along, one you must believe in order to fulfill your destiny.

Anakin: Enough with the riddles, old man. Tell me what's going on here.

Father: As you can see, there is nowhere else to go. It is late. You will be my guest tonight. ...

Qui-Gon: Obi-Wan, have you done as I asked? Have you trained the boy?

Obi-Wan: Master qui-gon. How are you here?

Qui-Gon: I am here because you are here.

Obi-Wan: No, I don't understand. What is this place?

Qui-Gon: Unlike any other, a conduit through which the entire force of the universe flows.

Obi-Wan: Are we in danger?

Qui-Gon: This planet is both an amplifier and a magnet. Three are here who seek Skywalker. They, like me, believe him to be the chosen one.

Obi-Wan: You were right. The force within him is stronger than any known jedi. I have trained him as well as I could, but he is still willful and balance eludes him.

Qui-Gon: If he is the chosen one, he will discover it here.

Obi-Wan: And if not?

Qui-Gon: Then you must realize with his power, this is a very dangerous place for him to be.

....

(woman) Wake up, my son. I must tell you a secret.

Anakin: Who's there? Who's there, I said.

(brother)It is me, ani, your mother.

Anakin: What kind of black arts is this? You're dead.

(brother)Nothing ever really dies, my son. I have a secret to tell you.

Anakin: Then tell me.

(brother)Everything you have done, everything you have learned has led you here.

Anakin: Whatever you are, my mother is Is dead.

(brother)And you blame yourself. Your jedi training has served you well, ani, but you are more than a jedi. Tell me, where is your pain, so I might take it away.

Anakin: I was too late to save you. I failed as a jedi and I failed you.

(brother)How so?

Anakin: I tasted only vengeance when I slaughtered so many to avenge your death.

(brother)It is time you realized that your guilt does not define you, my son. You define your guilt.

Anakin: The only love I feel in my heart is haunted by what would happen should I let go.

(brother)Then it is not love. It is a prison.

Anakin: But I I have a wife. You've met her. She's everything to me.

(brother)She is not your destiny.

Anakin: But I love her.

(brother): No! She is a poisoner!

Anakin: What are you? (brother)Your fate!

.....

-Are you happy, child? Your master, does he treat you well?

Ahsoka: What concern of it is yours?

-I am your future, your potential.

Ahsoka: This is a trick.

-There is a wildness to you, young one. Seeds of the dark side planted by your master. Do you feel it?

Ahsoka: No. He is like no other jedi. Passionate, impulsive, but I trust him with my life.

-There are many contradictions in you And in him. Be warned, you may never see your future if you remain his student. Leave this planet!

Obi-Wam: Ahsoka.

Ahsoka: I had a vision. I think Anakin may be in trouble.

...

Father: Cannot sleep? To strike an unarmed man is hardly the jedi way.

Anakin: You're a sith lord!

Father: You have a very simple view of the universe. I am neither sith nor jedi. I am much more And so are you.

Anakin: I see through your spells and visions, old man. Tell me what is going on here.

Father: Some call us force-wielders.

Anakin: The jedi have never spoken of this.

Father: Mm. Few still know of our existence.

Anakin:In that room, my mother came to me, but it was not her. It was something else.

Father: Ah. My son, I suspect. We can take many forms. The shapes we embody are merely a reflection of the life force around us. You carry a great sadness in your heart. My children and I can manipulate the force like no other, therefore, it was necessary to withdraw from the temporal world and live here as anchorites.

Anakin: As a sanctuary?

Father: And a prison. You cannot imagine what pain it is to have such love for your children and realize that they could tear the very fabric of our universe.

Anakin: I don't understand.

Father: It is only here that I can control them. A family in balance. The light and the dark. Day with night. Destruction replaced by creation.

Anakin: Then why reveal yourselves to us?

Father: There are some who would like to exploit our power. The sith are but one. Too much dark or light would be the undoing of life as you understand it. When news reached me that the chosen one had been found, I needed to see for myself.

Anakin: The chosen one is a myth.

Father: Is it? I should very much like to know. Why don't we find out together? Pass one test, and I shall know the truth. Then you and your friends may leave.

....

Ahsoka: The longer we stay here, the stranger this place gets.

Obi-Wan: It appears the planet is renewing herself.

Ahsoka: What about master Skywalker?

Obi-Wan: Anakin will not be easy to deceive.

...

Father: It is time to face your guilt and know the truth.

Roar!

Ahsoka: Whatever he wants, don't do it, master!

Anakin: Let them go. I will not play your games.

Father: Oh, but I think you will. I have ordered my children to kill your friends. The question is, which one will you choose to save: Your master or your apprentice? You must now release the guilt and free yourself by choosing.

Anakin: No!

Obi-Wan: Their powers are too strong for us, Anakin. Save ahsoka.

Anakin: Let them go!

Father: Only you can make my children release them.

Obi-Wan: Anakin, the planet is the force. Use it.

Anakin: You will let them go! Down! On your knees!

Father: And now you see who you truly are. Only the chosen one could tame both my children.

Anakin: I have taken your test. Now fulfill your promise and let us go.

Father: Ah, but first you must understand the truth. Father: Now all of you, leave us.

Ahsoka: Do not trust him.

Anakin: You think?

Father: I said leave us. Do you feel your destiny? You must see it now. I am dying, and you must replace me.

Anakin: Replace you? I can't stay here.

Father: But this is yours. It has been foretold. The chosen one will remain to keep my children in balance.

Anakin: No.

Father: I cannot force you to do this. The choice must be yours. But leave and your selfishness shall haunt you and the galaxy.

Obi-Wan: Ready to get out of here?

Ep 16 - Altar of Moris

Sent to discover the origin of a mysterious distress call. Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and his padawan, ahsoka tano. All stranded on a distant planet. Later they discover three beings, more powerful with the force than any jedi have seen before. The father keeps a fragile balance between his daughter, who allies with the light side, and the son, who drifts ever closer to the dark. With his strength failing, the father asks Anakin to stay and take his place, preserving the balance between light and dark, but after passing a perilous test, Skywalker refuses. Now, we find our heroes about to depart for their journey home Or so they think.

Anakin. Anakin. Anakin. It's true what they say. You are the chosen one. Join me. Together we can change the balance of the universe, my friend. You must know I will never join the dark side willingly. How simple you make it, light and dark, as if there is one without the other. Aligned, you and I can restore balance wherever we go, peace to the universe. By becoming a sith. Never. We will destroy the sith and the jedi. Were you having a nightmare? Something like that. If you're done napping, I could use a little help here. I'm coming. Leaving so soon? Not without this, you won't. Ahsoka! What's going on? The son took ahsoka. What in the blazes are you talking about? Move. Let me fly. Look out! I didn't think you saw it. It was a giant tower. Of course I saw it. Any sign of him? No. But I think it's obvious where he's taken her. We must hurry. Anakin, this wasn't a mistake. He brought us here for a reason. We must not get involved. Any conflict here could have dramatic repercussions for the universe at large. I don't care. He's too powerful for ahsoka. I won't leave her alone. We are in the middle of something we don't truly understand. We'd be wise to confer with the father first. There's no time. This is what he wants, to divide us. It's my fault he took her. You must feel how strong this part of the planet is with the dark side. The father will know what to do. He can't help us. You cannot keep me here. You hear me? Save your energy. You have been left to die. Then I will escape. Impossible. I have been here for more years than I care to remember. I am a jedi. We don't give up easily. Jedi? Huh. But so young. Where is your master? He will come for me. And if he does not? He will. What makes you so sure? Thank you. The chains? The chains are the easy part. It's what goes on in here that's hard. Don't you see, child? You are alone now. If you are to survive, you must forget your master. I don't think I Ow! What have you done? You are mine now. Anakin. Always on the move. How do I even find the father? You are growing stronger, my son. Am I, father? Vanity, however, is getting the better of you. How so? You have done what is forbidden. You've chosen the dark side and allowed it to feed your anger and desire for power. By bringing the chosen one here, you've shown me my potential. You've only yourself to blame. Do not do this, son. Do not become what you should not. Be strong, I implore you, or else I will be forced to contain you. You look frail, father. I am not dead yet. Well, perhaps I am tired of waiting. I hate you! Father! We will leave him to rest. I must talk to him. Not until he's stronger. But your brother is losing himself to the dark side. He's taken our friend. Then he must have his reasons. The same reason he had for attempting to murder your father? He would never do such a thing. But I saw him. It is not his fault. My nature is to do what is selfless, but my brother's will always be to do what is selfish. Then know you must help us. I cannot interfere with the ways of the force. My father forbids it. Your brother will flee this place and wreak havoc on the universe. You and Anakin combined have the power to stop him. Come with me. I can go no further. When you reach the altar, it will give you what you need. I-I don't understand. He who wields the blade will be able to control my brother. Ahsoka. Ahsoka, it's me. You're safe now. Let's go. Are you proud of me, master? What? Uh, of course, snips. Course I'm proud of you. Now, let's get out of here. He's right, right about everything. You must join him. He only wants what's best for the universe. Hey, what's wrong with you? Always with the criticism, master. Never really believing in me, trusting me. Well, I don't need you anymore. Ahsoka. Ahsoka, listen to me. He has done something to you. Snap out of it. This isn't you, ahsoka. Isn't it? I feel more like myself than I ever have. He asked me to give you a message. He said if you don't join him, he will kill me. I won't let him. Then you will be forced to kill me. Sister. What a pleasant surprise. And you brought a friend. What have you done, brother? Done? I have done what is right Or what is wrong, depending on your point of view. Our father is dying. Did you do it? He is just so selfish and was taking too long to die, so I decided to move things along. Now, why are you here? I won't let you leave this planet. You are not strong enough to keep me here. Not alone, she isn't. Are you referring to your friend, the chosen one? You might want to check up on him. He's a little preoccupied right now. I don't want to fight you, ahsoka. And now the student will kill the master. You're getting ahead of yourself, aren't you, snips? Don'call me that. I hate it when you call me that! Two jedi. Finally, a challenge. Can you feel it, sister? Can you feel the anger, the hate, the fury? Their conflict is feeding you, isn't it? I must stop them. No. If you will stand in my way, then I guess we must fight. Any suggestions? Yes. We cut her free. What is that? It can kill the son. Where did you get that? Give it to me. Ah! You don't have to do this. Then stand aside. I can't. I won't. Stop this! So glad you could make it to our little party, father. You will stop this. You are too weak for me, old man. You mean nothing to me anymore. Anakin, now! Everything has transpired exactly as I planned. You showed them the altar? I am sorry, father. I didn't know how else to stop him. Give it to me, child. Ahsoka, no. Thank you. Your usefulness has come to an end. No! The jedi have brought me the dagger, and you have brought yourself. Now, father, you will die. Father! Why? My daughter. What have I done? Do not hate him, father. It is his nature. No. All is lost. The balance has been broken. I thought by bringing you here, I would But I have destroyed everything. Can you help her? There is no light. The evil has been unleashed, and the dark side shall consume her. You must help her. I cannot undo what is done. There is no hope. Yes, there is. There's always hope. Then let my daughter's last act be to breathe life into your friend. Hey, snips. What's going on? Uh, not much. It's good to see you. As the balance in this world crumbles, so shall war escalate in your galaxy. As my son has descended into the dark side, so have the sith gained strength. We will stop your son. No. You must go now. He needs your ship to leave the planet. You must leave before he can take it. What about you? I shall mourn all that I have done. And all that is yet to be.

Ep 17 - Ghost of Mortis

[Star wars theme] Male announcer: Stranded! Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and his Padawan Ahsoka Tano are caught in the middle of a treacherous battle between good and evil. The scales now tipped toward the dark side, our three warriors must guard against attack as they plan their escape. A great weight has been placed on Anakin's shoulders, for it is now that he must face who he really is. I'm getting a little tired of how unreliable the weather is here. Some might say that's part of the appeal. You did well, Anakin. How do you feel? I'm not sure we're doing the right thing by leaving. The son is consumed by the dark side. And if we stay, we may be used to the dark side's advantage. Well, you want the bad news Or the really bad news? Well, let's try the bad news, laced with a little optimism. We've got two cracked shilo pins, a busted power converter, the engines should be fired twice to dump debris, and the backup vents need charging. Sounds terribly downbeat. Can it be fixed? I can reroute the primary initiator, weld the dampening vents, and that might give us enough power to leave the atmosphere. After that, I have no guarantees she'll hold together. We'll take our chances. Better than staying here. Where are you going? To see the father. I'm not convinced that the son will be contained here without our help. Perhaps we should make a stand. Anakin if I don't get the father's it'll haunt me forever. > Forgive me, daughter. I am an old fool who believed he could control the future. Now you are gone And all is lost. Sleep well, my child. Sleep free. You should have left by now. Our ship needs repairs. Do not underestimate my son. He will seek your ship to escape our isolation and sow terror through the universe. And while you are here, he will use you to do it. What will you do now that he's given himself over to the dark side? It is my actions that have unleashed great danger on the universe. I must kill him. But he's too powerful for you alone. Hmm, perhaps, perhaps not. The force will decide. I can help you. The choice is no longer yours to make. Both our destinies are clouded. This place is strong with the force. Darkness has no hold here. Go, ask, you have grown strong and powerful, just as I imagined. Master. Do you believe you are the chosen one? How can I know? I can tell you what I believe. I believe you will bring balance to the force, that you will face your demons and and this creature of the dark side? Do I leave, or do I stay and kill him? Neither. Look deeper. You will find another way. I don't understand. Not far from here, there is a place which is strong in the dark side of the force. You must go there. And destroy the son? Remember your training, Anakin. Trust your instincts. Master. Master! Might I suggest less sleeping and a little more work? Sorry, master Kenobi. Here. This should help. We need to change plans. You must focus on the firing drives. Disengage them. But I'm almost finished putting this junk heap back together, and now just do as I say. We don't have much time. Well, you're the boss. Where's Anakin? He came to me for guidance, but at the crossroad, only he can choose. The force will be his guide now. I don't like this. What have you done? I have done nothing. I am merely letting the will of the force take shape. Where has he gone? To the well of the dark side. Welcome. I believe there has been a misunderstanding. We really don't have to be enemies. You murdered your sister. The force is out of balance. I have to stop you. Must you? [Lightsaber hums] Anakin has gone to confront your son, hasn't he? Deep within this planet all that is dark is channeled. And how do I get there? You cannot interfere. The way I see it, if we were not supposed to interfere, Ahsoka and I wouldn't be here in the first place. Look after the ship. I'm going to find Anakin. [Lightsaber humming] There is no use for such crude implements here. I have a gift for you. I've had enough of your trickery. Oh, but you'll like this one. I promise. What if I could show you the future? No! No! Stop it! Know yourself. Know what you will become! [Moaning] I will not look! The force is strong with you. Anakin, please! You were my brother, Anakin! A powerful sith you will become. I hate you! No. No. No! I will do such terrible things. Yes. But it doesn't have to be that way. The choice is still yours to make. How? The future by its nature can be changed. Join me, and together we will destroy this emperor you see in your visions. Then we shall end war, corruption, and suffering throughout the galaxy. Will we bring peace? Of course. [Faint tapping and beeping] [Static crackling] Finally! This is jedi shuttle 634 calling on all secure channels for help. Do you read? I repeat: We are stranded and need immediate evac. Come in, please! Anakin, are you all right? There has been sorry. You will not understand what I have to do to end the clone war. [Screams] Anakin, why? I'm sorry. I have seen that it is the jedi who will stand in the way of peace. He's mine now. [Cackles maniacally] Ahsoka, come in, please. Can you hear me? Ahsoka! Yes, master. Any success with Anakin? No, quite the opposite. Master What are you saying? Anakin has joined with the son. Do not engage him. But just do as I say. Listen to me. You have to disable the ship. But I just finished putting it back together. Ahsoka, please listen. We have to prevent Anakin and the son from leaving. Yes, master. Ahsoka, what have you done? Ahsoka! [Grunts and gasps] Hmm, nice job. What took you so long? Here. I did as you said. The shuttle's going nowhere without that. Good, that gives us some time to rescue Anakin. I can't make contact with anybody. I don't think anyone will hear my signal. My father still has hold over this realm, but I will be able to draw any ship here soon. If I know my old master, he, too, will try to stop us. Together with your father, they would be a formidable opponent. I can turn the tide stay here. What did he show you? I've seen what I become, and I cannot let that happen. And for this, you join him? Your destiny can change just as quickly as the love in one's heart can fade. Nothing is set in stone. But I will cause so much pain. If there is to be balance, what you have seen must be forgotten. So cold. It's ironic, my sister. I truly loved. Where am I? I have brought you back to my monastery. [Sighs] What happened? My son broke the laws of time and showed you what you should never have seen. I don't remember. I have erased that time. We shall never know. Master! Are you all right? I think so, but we must stop the son once and for all. We have little time, and you'll get only one chance. You know what you must do. How quaint, my own personal send-off. I ask you one last time. Do not leave, my son. You have no power to keep me, old man. You must understand by now, this planet is not my destiny. What you will do will destroy all that is good. I beg you, restrain yourself and stay. I cannot. And then it shall be. I love you, my son. Do you? [Lightsaber hums] [Low thudding] [Gasping and choking] [Lightsabers hum] [Gasps] [Grunts] [Lightsabers humming] [Both scream] [Both grunt] What? [Chuckles] You're going to kill me now? I held hope that you could resist the dark side. But I see now, there is no going back. Father. [Grunts] No! What have you done? It did not have to be this way. Yes, my child, it did. You and I are tied together, runs through me. This way, I take your power. [Gasps] Please, don't die. I always knew there was good in you. [Lightsaber hums] [Gasps and groans] And so you have betrayed me, father. [Gasping] It is done. And now I die, my heart broken, the role you will play. And what is that? You are the chosen one. You have brought balance to this world. Stay on this path, and you will do it again for the galaxy. But beware your Heart. [Low rumbling] [Rocks smashing] [Glass shatters] [Explosion] General Skywalker, come in! We read you, Rex. Can you hear me? Yes, sir, standing by. We were worried. You were off the scopes there for a moment. A moment? We've been gone more than a moment, Rex. Sir, I don't understand. You'll need to explain. You wouldn't believe me if I told you. We're coming in now. [Orchestral fanfare]

Ep 1 - Water War

NARRATOR: "Water wars! Tensions run high on the ocean world of Mon Calamari, where two separate peoples, the aggressive squid-like Quarren, and their peaceful neighbor the Mon Calamari struggle to maintain a fragile coexistence. Adding to this strife, the king of the Mon Calamari has been found mysteriously murdered, leaving his young son prince Lee-char to guide his people alone. But the Quarren race will not except the new ruler as their king. Senator Amidila and her Jedi body-guard have arrived to help resolve the matter, and to avoid plunging the planet into civil war..."

Unnamed Mon Calamari: "The world prospered under our ruler!"

Unnamed Quarren: "It's time for a change!"

Unnamed Mon Calamari: "The prince's rule has been preordained!"

Unnamed Quarren: "Down with this monarchy!"

Unnamed Mon calamari: "We'll defend our right for a Mon Cala king!"

Unnamed Quarren: "We want a Quarren king!"

Unnamed Quarren: "Down with the Mon Cala, power to the Quarren!"

Prince Lee-Char: "I am dedicated to serving the Quarren as well as my own people, the Mon Calamari."

Riff Tamson: "Silence! You haven't earned the right to speak."



Ep 7 - Darkness of Umbara
Moral: The first step towards loyalty is trust

Narrator: War in the Expansion Region. As the Separatists tighten their grip over vital but isolated supply routes, the Republic launches a lightning strike into a remote Ghost Nebula to control the strategic system of Umbara. Republic forces smash through the Separatist blockage in an effort to claim the shadowy world.

Obi-Wan: Masters Krell and Tiin till be supporting my troops in the south while Anakin's battalion comes in from the north and takes out enemy reinforcements. It is imperative that we conquer the capital city as quickly as possible and hold it.

Anakin: Our biggest problem is gonna be the local militia. The Umbarans have aligned themselves with the Separatists and are heavily armed. ARC Trooper Fives will be assisting my units on special assignment.

Fives: Ready to do my part, General Skywalker.

Rex: Nice to have you on board.

Fives: Just like old times, Rex.

Obi-Wan: Remember Anakin, Cody and I will be 12 klicks to your south. We're counting on you to take out those local fighters, or, I'm afraid the capital will never surrender.

Anakin: Does my battalion have to do everything?

Obi-Wan: You seem to always volunteer.

Rex: All right, let's go!

Rex: There's a lot of surface fire.

Clone Trooper: They ain't got nothing we can't handle, Sir.

Rex: You hangin' in there, Tup?

Tup: So far, so good, Captain.

Pilot: General Skywalker, I'm turning the lights out. Our night vision sensors are having a tough time in this chop. I hope we don't overshoot the landing site.

Anakin: Just get us as close as you can.

Clone Trooper: Time to lock and load.

Clone Trooper: After 'em, boys!

Clone Troopers: All right! Let's go. All right! Wipe 'em out! Get them! Ah! Too many of 'em! Whoa! Out of the way! Take it down! Take it down! Take it down!

Clone Trooper: Go, go, go! Give it to 'em! Go, go, go, go, go, go! Take 'em out! Take 'em all--ah!

Clone Trooper: That's the stuff. That's the stuff--Ah!

Clone Trooper: Incoming!

Clone Trooper: Ah!

Clone Trooper: Ugh!

Clone Trooper: That's it! Ah!

Clone Trooper: Give it to 'em! Let's go! Let's--ah!

Clone Trooper: Go, go, go, go, go! Right on! Ah!

Rex: This map has a ridge at 23 degrees North, Northwest.

Anakin: Good. We can use it as a staging area.

Clone Trooper: That's it! Take 'em round right!

Rex: Keep movin'. We've got to claim that ridge. The other battalions are counting on us!

Anakin: Don't stray too far. The enemy could have the whole place rigged with traps.

Tup: I can't even see the enemy!

Clone Trooper: Go, go, go, go! Ah!

Clone Trooper: That's why they're called the Shadow People, Tup.

Rex: Everyone, take cover!

Clone Trooper: It's just a vine. Keep moving, Hardcase.

Hardcase: Yeah, I got it all under control.

Hardcase: Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!

Clone Trooper: Ah!

Hardcase: Ugh! Ugh!

Clone Trooper: Oh, ah! Ah!

Hardcase: That's not right!

Hardcase: Nice work, Fives.

Fives: Hardcase, right?

Hardcase: Yeah. That's what they call me.

Rex: General Kenobi's battalion, sir?

Anakin: They're pushing towards the capital. We'll need to move out as soon as the men are ready.

Dogma: All platoons have reported in, General.

Anakin: Get some rest.

Dogma: Thank you, sir. I'm fine.

Rex: The general's giving you an order, Dogma.

Dogma: Of course, Sir.

Rex: He's wound tight, but he's loyal.

Anakin: He kind of reminds me of you.

Rex: Maybe... back in the day.

Clone Trooper: Ah!

Clone Trooper: What is that? Look out!

Clone Trooper: Ambush! They're behind us! Ah!

Fives: The enemy's circled behind us. Everybody we must defend our backs!

Rex: I've called in an air strike on the enemy positions.

Anakin: Let's hope they're not too busy helping Obi-Wan.

Rex: There's an opening to our South. I recommend we move all platoons off the ridge in case the air strike overshoots.

Anakin: Good thinking, Rex. Everyone, move out now!

Rex: All here, Sir.

Anakin: Stay covered. We have to hold the position.

Clone Trooper: Are you sure those bombers are coming?

Clone Trooper: Good old Odd Ball, always on target.

Anakin: Glad we got off that ridge.

Rex: Yeah.

Hardcase: Ha! That'll teach 'em.

Dogma: General Krell's here?

Fives: Something big must be going on.

Anakin: Master Krell, my thanks for the air support.

Krell: Indeed, General Skywalker. The locals have proven to be more resourceful than we anticipated.

Anakin: But that's not the reason for your visit.

Krell: No. The council has ordered you back to Coruscant, effective immediately.

Anakin: What? Wh-why?

Krell: I'm afraid a request was made by the Supreme Chancellor, and the Council obliged. That is all they would tell me.

Anakin: Well, I can't just leave my men.

Krell: I'll be taking over in the interim.

Rex: Don't worry about a thing, SIr. We'll have this city under Republic control by the time you're back.

Anakin: Master Krell, this is Rex, my first in command. You won't find a finer or more loyal trooper anywhere.

Krell: Good to hear that. I wish you well, Skywalker.

Rex: Your reputation precedes you, General. It is an honor to be serving you.

Krell: I find it very interesting, Captain, that you are able to recognize the value of honor, for a clone. Stand at attention when I address you. Your flattery is duly noted, but it will not be rewarded. There's a reason my command is so effective. And it's because I do things by the book. And that includes protocol. Have all platoons ready to move out immediately. That is all.

Rex: Eh...

Krell: Quicken that pace, battalion! This isn't some training course on Kamino.

Fives: The new general has a way with words.

Rex: He's just trying to keep us on schedule.

Fives: By raising everyone's ire?

Rex: Either way, he's in charge and we've got a job to do. Just treat him with respect and we'll all get along fine.

Fives: Do you see that?

Rex: Yeah. Ready your weapons.

Clone Troopers: Ugh! Ah!

Krell: Anyone else want to stop and play with the animals? Didn't think so. Now keep moving!

Clone Trooper: Sir, we've been keeping this pace for 12 hours now. The men are getting worn down. We should rest.

Rex: General Krell, the top of this ridge will make a good place for the men to make camp.

Krell: The men don't need rest. They need the resolve to complete the task at hand.

Rex: But sir--

Krell: CT-7567, are you reading me?

Rex: Excuse me, Sir?

Krell: I asked you a question, CT-7567. Do you understand the need to adhere to my strategy.

Rex: Sir, the terrain is extremely hostile. Despite the difficulty of the conditions, the battalion is making good time. These men just need a little break.

Krell: Captain, do I need to remind you of this battalion's strategic mission in conquering this planet? Look back. See those platoons? Their mission is to take this city and take it swiftly. Time and rest are luxuries the Republic cannot afford. We are the key to this invasion. The other battalions are counting on our support. If we fail, everyone fails. Do you understand this? Do all of you understand this? Now, move on!

Rex: Sir, we're ready to bring our forward platoons in for a surgical strike on the city's defenses.

Krell: There won't be any need, Captain.

Rex: Sir?

Krell: All platoons will execute a forward assault along the main route to the city.

Rex: But. Sir, General Skywalker's plan was to surprise them with multiple attacks. If we come in from the main route, they're likely to engage us in a full-frontal assault.

Krell: Change of plans, Captain. I'm in command now.

Rex: With all due respect, General, we don't know what we're up against. It might be wiser to think first.

Krell: Are you questioning my order? This battalion will take the main road straight to the capital. You will not stop and you will not turn back, regardless of the resistance you meet. We will attack them with all our troops, not some sneak attack with a few men. That is my order, and you will follow it explicitly. Do I make myself clear, CT-7567?

Rex: Yes, General.

Krell: Now, engage.

Clone Trooper: So, why aren't we sticking to the original plan and probing the city defenses first?

Hardcase: We can do this. Let's take 'em!

Clone Trooper: Yeah, leave it to Hardcase to dive in head-first.

Fives: The general's new plan is reckless.

Dogma: You ever think that maybe the general knows what he is doing?

Fives: I know you think this is a bad idea.

Rex: I raised my objection to General Krell's plan, but he didn't agree. So this is it.

Fives: Well what if he's wrong? Then what?

Rex: This isn't the time for a debate. Right now we have to stay alert.

Clone Trooper: Eh, it's too quiet out there.

Clone Trooper: Ah! Ah!

Rex: Mines! Nobody move!

Clone Trooper: Oz is down.

Clone Trooper: So is Ringo.

Rex: Can you sweep 'em?

Fives: There are more over here. Looks like the whole road's been booby trapped. Everyone watch your step.

Clone Trooper: We're completely exposed!

Rex: Hold your ground!

Hardcase: You want a piece of this?

Clone Trooper: I think Hardcase made 'em mad.

Clone Trooper: We're blown!

Rex: The Umbarans are advancing!

Hardcase: Make 'em eat heat!

Umbaran: Ah!

Clone Troopers: Ah! Yah! Yah! Ah!

Dogma: They're coming from all directions.

Rex: We don't have any cover! We need to pull back. Get them to follow us. If we can draw them out, we can see them. If we can see them, we can hit them. All squads, pull back now!

Clone Trooper: This can't be good.

Krell: Feeble-minded clones. Get in there and save their necks.

Rex: Get ready! Here they come!

Rex: Stand fast. Hit 'em with everything you've got.

Hardcase: Ha, ha, ha! Where you goin'? Get back here!

Rex: They're falling back!

Krell: CT-7567, do you have a malfunction in your design? You pulled your forces back from taking the capital city. The enemy now has control of this route. This entire operation has been compromised because of your failure!

Fives: General Krell, in case you haven't noticed, Captain Rex just saved this platoon. Surely you won't fail to recognize that.

Krell: ARC-5555, stand down.

Fives: Sir, yes, Sir.

Rex: Sir, if I may address your accusation; I followed your orders, even in the face of a plan that was in my opinion severely flawed, a plan that cost us men, not clones! Men! As sure as it is my duty to remain loyal to your command, I also have another duty, to protect those men.

Krell: You have a spark of tenacity, Captain. I'll give you that. I know that I don't command like the Jedi you're used to serving. Certainly not like General Skywalker. But I have my way. It may be difficult, but these are difficult times. And it's proven effective. I suppose your loyalty to your men is to be commended. They seem to admire this. That's important to an effective commander. All right, Captain Rex, your opinion has been noted. Dismissed.

Fives: I think he almost complimented you.

Rex: Uh, it's hard to tell.

Clone Trooper: Incoming!

Rex: The Umbarans must've regrouped for a counterattack. Everyone, we must hold this position!

Fives: You think General Krell still intends on taking the capital using this strategy?

Rex: I don't know. I'll get back to you on that if we survive this battle.



Ep 8 - The General

Moral: The path of ignorance is guided by fear.

Announcer: Turning the tide. As separatist control over vital but isolated supply routes expands, Republic forces invade a key planet-- the darkened world of Umbara. In the midst of helping Obi-Wan Kenobi's battalion conquer the Umbaran capital, Anakin Skywalker is called away to Coruscant. His battalion is temporarily placed under the command of Jedi General Pong Krell-- a shrewd and temperamental leader. Krell's reckless strategy forced Captain Rex to retreat with his platoons in a disastrous defeat.

Captain Rex: We have got to move before those fighters come back.

Fives: Rex! Rex, over here!

Captain Rex: Jesse, take the right flank. Dogma, take the left flank.

Clone Trooper: You're going to be okay, buddy. This will ease the pain.

Fives: Ugh!

Obi-Wan: The capital city's too fortified. We need your battalion to help us take it.

Krell: Resistance from the Umbarans has been greater than anticipated. We're holding our ground at the moment.

Obi-Wan: We've gathered intel on an airbase to the West. It is resupplying the capital's defenses.

Clone Trooper: Incoming! Incoming! Get down! Get down!

Obi-Wan: If you could capture that airbase, it will sever the capital's supply lines, allowing the rest of our forces to move in.

Krell: I'll see to it that the airbase is placed under our control.

Obi-Wan: Remember, General Krell, the entire invasion depends on your battalion.

Krell: Captain Rex, have those coordinates mapped and all troops ready to move out immediately.

Captain Rex: Yes, General.

Captain Rex: There's a base there, all right. And it's heavily guarded. At least three tank divisions, plus guns.

Krell: We'll advance along the central gorge and engage their forces in a full-forward assault.

Captain Rex: The gorge is narrow, Sir. We'll only be able to move our platoons in single squads. Perhaps a closer recon will tell us if there's a more secure route.

Krell: Obi-Wan and the other battalions are holding off the enemy right now while they wait for us to take out this base. We don't have time to look for a more secure route.

Captain Rex: Yes, Sir.

Captain Rex: All right, listen up. We'll assemble the squads into two divisions. We'll move straight up this gorge towards the airbase at the far side.

Clone Trooper: The casualties are going to be be high.

Clone Trooper: Is Krell trying to get us killed?

Clone Trooper: You know, I wasn't sure that Krell was crazy before, but now I'm positive.

Fives: We had to retreat from the capital because the general pushed a flawed strategy. Now this?

Clone Trooper: I don't know. Could be fun.

Dogma: Well, I for one agree with the general's plan. We're running out of time and this is the best option.

Jesse: No recon? No air support? We don't know what we're up against. They have weapons we've never seen before.

Captain Rex: A few of General Skywalker's plans seemed reckless too, but they worked.

Fives: Yeah but General Skywalker is usually leading his men up in the front, not bringing up the rear like General Krell. A full forward assault would leave us too exposed.

Clone Trooper: We have to look at other options.

Clone Trooper: It's going to be a meat grinder down there.

Captain Rex: Fives... It would help if you'd ease their minds.

Fives: Oh, you mean coax them into following another one of Krell's suicide missions? We lost a lot of men last time.

Captain Rex: Krell may do things differently, but he is effective at getting them done. He's a recognized war hero.

Fives: He may have had some victories, but have you seen his casualty numbers? More troopers have been killed under his command than anyone else.

Captain Rex; That's the price of war, Fives. We're soldiers. We have a duty to follow orders, and, if we must, lay down our lives for victory.

Fives: Do you believe that? Or is that what you were engineered to think?

Captain Rex: I honor my code. That's what I believe.

Captain Rex: Is everyone clear on the plan? Hardcase?

Hardcase: Yes, Sir.

Captain Rex: Fives? Are you clear?

Fives: Yeah.

Captain Rex: All right, get in your groups. Let's move out.

Fives: Everybody stay alert. Fingers on the trigger.

Clone Trooper: They look spooked. What the...

Clone Trooper: Oh, skrag.

Captain Rex: Blast it!

Clone Trooper: Look out!

Fives: Its head is ray shielded. We need rocket launchers!

Fives: Mayday! Mayday! Rex, we need rocket launchers-- now!

Captain Rex: Get those rocket launchers down there. Move it, troopers!

Clone Trooper: Take it. Take it.

Clone Trooper: Thanks, buddy.

Clone Trooper: I got him.

Captain Rex: Go! Go, go, go! Keep moving! Keep moving!

Captain Rex: That was close.

Hardcase: You got a point there.

Captain Rex: Move it, trooper.

Captain Rex: Everyone regroup, now! Take cover!

Clone Trooper: Move it! Move it!

Fives: We're safe for the moment.

Captain Rex: They'll be coming around any second. Bring up the launchers. Spread detonators along that corridor. Trap them into the bottleneck. We're going to blow those things sky high. Hurry up. We only have a few seconds.

Clone Trooper: Here they come.

Clone Troopers: Hey! Come on! Over here! Right over here! Over here! Whoo!

Captain Rex: Ugh.

Clone Trooper: We got 'em! We got 'em!

Captain Rex: Good job. All right, let;s move out.

Captain Rex: That one's still got some juice in it. Waste it!

Hardcase: Sure.

Clone Trooper: No juice left in him either.

Clone Trooper: Hey! Still hungry? Chew on that!

Captain Rex: Everyone, keep moving. Hey, Kix, leave it.

Captain Rex: We've got a problem. Fall back! Fall back now!

Krell: What are they doing? Captain, continue your attack.

Captain Rex: Sir, we're overpowered. We need reinforcements.

Krell: The rest of the battalion is holding the entrance to the gorge, Captain. They're guarding it so your troops can break through to the airbase.

Captain Rex: Sir, we can't possibly...

Krell: You must stand your ground. Do you read me? Captain? Are you listening? Do not fall back. That is an order!

Sergeant Appo: The platoons are in the formation you requested, General. Should I send them yo support Captain Rex?

Krell: I'll give the order when I give it, Sergeant Appo.

Captain Rex: Keep the wounded as quiet as possible. All right, you heard the General. Let's go.

Clone Trooper: You can't be serious.

Fives: I used to think that General Krell was reckless, but now I'm beginning to think he just hates clones.

Dogma: The Captain is right. Now, let's move out.

Fives: We can't take them head on. We need to find another way.

Captain Rex: You got any ideas? Then this is it.

Hardcase: Okay. Let's do it.

Clone Trooper: Ah!

Captain Rex: Watch your left!

Clone Trooper: Ah!

Clone Trooper: Rocket launchers don't work on these things!

Clone Trooper: Oh!

Clone Troopers: Ah!

Kix: Help me with the wounded! We got to get these guys out of here.

Captain Rex: Forget it. We have to leave them.

Kix: We can't just leave them, Sir.

Captain Rex: You don't have a choice. That's an order.

Kix: You sound like General Krell.

Captain Rex: Look, Kix, it's more important to save yourself right now. If we survive, you can patch up the wounded later.

Clone Trooper: We're... we're finished.

Captain Rex: We've still got some fight left in us, Tup, and I've got an idea.

FIves: What were you thinking?

Captain Rex: Remember what you were saying about finding another way to destroy those tanks?

Fives: Yeah.

Captain Rex: Well, I have a mission for you.

Krell: CT-7567, where are you?

Captain Rex: General Krell, we've come up with a plan to infiltrate the airbase.

Krell: What is your plan?

Captain Rex: I've dispatched two men on a stealth incursion into the airbase. They've been ordered to co-opt starfighters and use them against the tanks.

Krell: You what? You put this entire assault on your hope that two clones could do what your entire group could not?

Captain Rex: Sir, the rocket launchers don't work on these tanks, and it'll be easier to slip by undetected while the rest of us keep the tanks occupied.

Krell: Captain, you will launch a full-forward strike immediately! Or you will be relieved of duty.

Captain Rex: We need to hold out as long as we can. I'm trusting Fives and Hardcase to pull this thing off.

Hardcase: The second they spot us, I start blastin'.

Fives: Hardcase, can't you take it easy for once? Stick to the plan instead of guns blazing.

Hardcase: I'm sorry, it's just how I am. My commander on Kamino said my growth acceleration chamber had a leak. Made me hyperactive, I guess.

Fives: Shh! There's the airbase. Hmm. Some kind of sensor wall. Use the tree to get over the sensor wall.

Hardcase: Uh, how am I supposed to do this, exactly?

Fives: Figure it out.

Hardcase: "Figure it out, Hardcase. Figure it out." What's to figure out about climbing up a tree? How about you try it next time? Great. Nice view. I prefer a good fight to all this sneaking around.

Fives: Wow, I never actually thought that would work.

Fives: So how do I start this thing?

Hardcase: Well, how should I know? Start pushing buttons. Whoa-ho-ho-ho-ha ha! Glad these things are ray shielded.

Fives: Whoa! Whoa-ho-ho. Whoa! Oh!

Hardcase: I don't think I can do this.

Fives: Ha! Watch out!

Hardcase: Whoa, whoa, whoa.

Hardcase: Let's hope this trip was worth it.

Fives: All right, let's go!

Clone Trooper: Ah!

Clone Trooper: Hey, Kix, bring it down. You're wasting heat.

Captain Rex: What the...

Fives: Clear out, Captain.

Hardcase: The big guns have arrived, Sir!

Fives: Yeah!

Hardcase: Take that! Whoo-hoo!

Fives: Yeah, whoo! That's the stuff!

Clone Troopers: Way to go boys! Yeah! Atta boy, Hardcase! Whoo!

Fives: All right, let's bring 'em home.

Krell: Impressive. Sergeant, their defenses are down. Send in the rest of our forces. Attack the airbase!

Sergeant Appo: All units move out.

Captain Rex: Despite Hardcase's flying, you two saved us all.

Hardcase: That wasn't so tough.

Fives: You sure? You looked a little green when you came out of that fighter.

Krell: Captain, report. What is our situation?

Captain Rex: General, we have taken the base and cut off enemy supply lines to the capital.

Krell: Luck has smiled on you today, Captain. Consider yourself fortunate.

Captain Rex: It wasn't all luck, Sir. A lot of men died to take this base.

Krell: The price for such victory. Perhaps someday you'll realize this. Dismissed.

Fives: He's the one who will never realize.




Ep 15 - Deception

Narrator: A terrorist threat! Moralo Eval, mastermind of a Separatist plot to kidnap Chancellor Palpatine, has been captured by Republic forces! But even with the criminal behind bars, rumors swirl in the underworld of Coruscant that Moralo's plot has already been set in motion With precious time running out, the Jedi Council hatches their own plot to keep the Chancellor safe.

OBI-WAN KENOBI, ANAKIN SKYWALKER, and AHSOKA TANO walk out of a building towards a speeder. As they walk, they talk.

Anakin: So what's the big rush?

Obi-Wan: The Jedi Council has called an emergency meeting.

Anakin: I can see it now. Another long, boring debate.

On top of one of the buildings, a SNIPER takes AIM. The TRIO is oblivious.

Ahsoka: Would you rather they call you in to train younglings?

Anakin: Are you crazy?

The SNIPER slowly adjusts his AIM for OBI-WAN. Then he FIRES, multiple times. THEY dodge and hide behind CRATES.

Obi-Wan: Any idea where that shot came from?

AHSOKA spies the SNIPER.

Ahsoka: A sniper. I see him up there!

OBI-WAN outlines his plan, getting nods from ANAKIN and AHSOKA TANO for acceptance of their JOBS.

Obi-Wan: All right, here's the plan. Anakin, you flank him on the right. Ahsoka, you cover the lower streets. I'm going after him.

All THREE take out their LIGHTSABERS and get ready for combat. All THREE run forward. The SNIPER tries to AIM but can not, so he TURNS and takes off. The TRIO Force-jump up the buildings to get to the TOP. Once they ARRIVE, they hide. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN are SHOT at by the SNIPER. The SNIPER takes off. All THREE pursue.

OBI-WAN finds the SNIPER. ANAKIN and AHSOKA contact HIM.

Anakin: I lost him! Obi-Wan, do you have anything?

OBI-WAN does not RESPOND, instead, he takes a deep BREATH and walks directly into the line of FIRE. The SNIPER takes the SHOT. OBI-WAN is HIT and falls over the building. He LANDS in front of AHSOKA, and ANAKIN calls out to him.

Anakin: Obi-Wan!

Ahsoka: I got him, go!

ANAKIN pursues the SNIPER. The SNIPER runs and gets on a SPEEDER before ANAKIN can catch up. As he DRIVES off, he drops a SMOKE GRENADE. ANAKIN is stopped. Unable to follow, he TURNS back. 

Cut to:

AHSOKA cradles OBI-WAN's body in her lap. ANAKIN drops down from the building and RUNS to THEM. 

Anakin: How is he?

AHSOKA looks up, tears in her eyes. ANAKIN kneels, calling his name.

Anakin: Obi-Wan. Obi-Wan. Obi-Wan!

Cut to:

Outside view of the JEDI TEMPLE. ZOOMS in to show OBI-WAN KENOBI's FUNERAL. ANAKIN stands at the foot of the CASKET, hood drawn up, scowling. AHSOKA turns to PLO KOON.

Ahsoka: I'm worried about Anakin. He hasn't said a word since it happened.

ANAKIN still scowls as OBI-WAN's CASKET is LOWERED into the ground. The PIT closes and a beam of yellow LIGHT ignites. ANAKIN's eyes widen before he SCOWLS deeper.

Cut to:

A seedy BAR is shown. A MAN walks into the bar. A WOMAN sitting at the bar looks the MAN over as he puts his HELMET down and sits.

Woman: Wow. I want to check his midi-chlorian count.

Bartender: What's your pleasure?

Man: Shot of your finest.

The WOMAN gets up and walks closer.

Woman: So what's the big deal?

The MAN gets his SHOT, and as he explains, THROWS it back.

Man: I'm celebrating. The death of a Jedi. I killed Obi-Wan Kenobi!

Cut to:

Walking a HALLWAY in the JEDI TEMPLE is MACE WINDU and YODA. As THEY WALK towards a door, they TALK.

Mace: Having second thoughts, Master Yoda?

Yoda: Hmm, heading down a dark path, we are.

Mace: We talked about this. Killing a Jedi was the best move we had.

Yoda: Hmm.

MACE and YODA walk into the MED WING, into a room that holds OBI-WAN. OBI-WAN is being tended to by a DROID.

Obi-Wan: So, how was my funeral?

Yoda: A better performance than you, your corpse gave.

Obi-Wan: Whatever do you mean? I fell from the top of a building. I could have killed myself.

Yoda: Survived worse, you have. Young Skywalker knows this.

Obi-Wan: I took the vitals suppressor as instructed. I was dead to the world when Anakin moved my body.

OBI-WAN turns to MACE.

Obi-Wan: There's no way he could know I was alive.

Yoda: Not know, but sense, he will, that something is not right.

Obi-Wan: Keeping Anakin on the outside was critical. Everyone knows how close we are. It was his reaction that sold the sniper. I'm sure of it.

Mace: What's done is done. We need to get your transformation underway.

Obi-Wan: Well, time for a shave! Tell me about my target.

A DROID begins to CUT his HAIR. As MACE begins to talk, he pulls out a HOLO-RECORDER to show MORALO EVAL.

Mace: His name is Moralo Eval. Works directly for Count Dooku. Rumor is their plot will be hatched in three revolutions at the festival on Naboo. We tried to make a deal with Moralo for more details, but he was uncooperative.

MACE turns off the HOLO-RECORDER.

Obi-Wan: Any details that might help me gain his trust while in prison?

Mace: Eval killed his mother when he was only a boy. Told the authorities he did it because he was bored.

Obi-Wan: Hmm, I'll try not to bore him.

As YODA begins to speak, OBI-WAN is REVEALED, shaved. OBI-WAN TOUCHES his face in wonder.

Yoda: Not a game is this, Obi-Wan. The risks, great they are.

Obi-Wan: Yes, and so are the rewards. Besides preventing Eval from abducting the Chancellor, he could lead us to Grievous, and possibly Dooku himself.

Droid: Facial transformation program loaded.

OBI-WAN lays back on the bed, readying himself for the TRANSFORMATION.

Obi-Wan: I take it there's no way to have the Chancellor pull out of the festival?

Yoda: No. See it as a sign of weakness, he would.

Obi-Wan: Sign of weakness. Wouldn't want that.

A large NEEDLE is placed in OBI-WAN's neck. OBI-WAN's face starts to SHIFT and CHANGE. OBI-WAN shows great pain as his face SHIFTS. FIGHTING and SHIFTING as his face CHANGES.

Droid: Transformation initiated.

Cut to:

BACK in the BAR, RAKO HARDEEN is drinking with the WOMAN from before. A DROID rolls up to RAKO HARDEEN.

Woman: This cantina is a bust. Do you want to go to the next one? 

Droid: Rako Hardeen? 

Rako: Who wants to know?

Droid: Your employer has your payment. Please follow me.

As RAKO gets up to FOLLOW the DROID, he CALLS out.

Rako: Round for the house!

Bar Patrons: Yes! Oh, yeah!

The DROID leads RAKO into a HALLWAY and then into a ROOM.

Droid: This way. Inside if you please.

The ROOM is dark and a CLOAKED FIGURE is sitting in a CHAIR.

Cloaked Figure: Well done, Mr. Hardeen. You did precisely the job we hired you for. We have your credits right here. But first we need one more thing.

The CLOAKED FIGURE gets up, showing that he is OBI-WAN KENOBI wearing RAKO HARDEEN's face.

Obi-Wan: Your clothes.

Rako: What the - 

RAKO HARDEEN backs up, SHOCKED, into MACE WINDU. 

Fade to black.

Cut to: 

AHSOKA and ANAKIN are flying towards an UNKNOWN DESTINATION.

Ahsoka: I still don't understand. Did Master Yoda say how they found the sniper?

Anakin: Who cares. All that matters is they did.

Cut to:

Back in the ROOM, MACE interrogates RAKO HARDEEN.

Rako: So I took off in my speeder, and then I got a ride here. That's it.

Mace: Keep talking. Into this.

MACE shows off his RECORDER. RAKO HARDEEN complains as OBI-WAN comes out DRESSED in his CLOTHES.

Rako: This is stupid! Confessing to a murder I didn't even do!

Obi-Wan: Oh, but you did For all intents and purposes, Obi-Wan Kenobi is dead. And that certainly was your intention. How do I look?

Mace: Like a criminal. Should buy you all the credibility you need in prison.

Rako: Look, I don't know what you guys are up to, but

Obi-Wan: Do we have enough recording?

Mace: I believe so. Which means you can go to sleep now.

MACE JEDI-TRICKS RAKO HARDEEN to sleep.

Obi-Wan: So how does this vocal emulator work?

The RECORDER BEEPS and TRANSFORMS into a BALL with LEGS. It CRAWLS up OBI-WAN's arm.

Mace: Well, you swallow it.

Obi-Wan: I was afraid you'd say that. 

OBI-WAN swallows the RECORDER. As it works, OBI-WAN's VOICE changes. Now, OBI-WAN looks and sounds the part of RAKO HARDEEN

Obi-Wan: What an odd sensation. It will take some getting used to.

Mace: That's a luxury you don't have.

Obi-Wan: I hope this works.

Cut to:

ANAKIN and AHSOKA walk into the BAR. As the DOORS shut behind ANAKIN, he activates his LIGHTSABER. All the BAR PATRONS turn to look at them.

Anakin: Where is Rako Hardeen?

Bartender: Ah, Back room.

ANAKIN leads AHSOKA into the backroom. OBI-WAN, playing RAKO HARDEEN, is curled up on the BED.

Ahsoka: Is he dead?

Anakin: He's about to be.

ANAKIN rolls him over. OBI-WAN - RAKO HARDEEN rolls over and SQUINTS.

Obi-Wan: A Jedi? I already killed a Jedi today. Let me sleep.

Anakin: He's not dead. He's drunk. Get up, you filth!

ANAKIN grabs OBI-WAN up by the COLLAR and SNARLS in his face. Unhappy, ANAKIN threatens him, while AHSOKA stands in the corner.

Anakin: If it was up to me I would kill you right here! But lucky for you, the man you murdered would rather see you rot in jail.

OBI-WAN is drunk and does not RESPOND.

Anakin: Now, let's go, you coward, before I change my mind.

ANAKIN and AHSOKA walk OBI-WAN out.

Cut to:

A PRISON, where ANAKIN and AHSOKA have taken OBI-WAN to stay.

Anakin: You should be expecting this scum.

Clone: Yes, sir.

Anakin: Let me know if he's any trouble. I'd be happy to straighten him out.

Cut to:

Inside the PRISON, the INMATES, all watch OBI-WAN enter. It is time for FOOD, and they are all either SEATED or getting FOOD. They all WHISPER as OBI-WAN wearing RAKO HARDEEN's face goes to sit down.

Inmate 1: That's him! Kenobi's killer!

Inmate 2: Rako Hardeen.

Inmate 1: He doesn't look so tough.

Inmate 2: He killed a Jedi.

The INMATES including MORALO EVAL watch OBI-WAN sit down. OBI-WAN takes a bit of FOOD and SPITS it out. A couple INMATES come over to HASSLE OBI-WAN. OBI-WAN ignores them, even as INMATE 3 sips his DRINK and BERATES him.

Inmate 3: That's him? That's the Jedi killer? He doesn't look so tough. You don't look so tough to me.

Obi-Wan: This food tastes terrible.

OBI-WAN stabs INMATE 3 with a FORK and DRAGS him down to his level. INMATE 3 ROARS. The CLONE GUARDS look down at the COMMOTION.

Obi-Wan: Maybe you'd taste better.

Clone Guard: Hey, what's going on down there?

Obi-Wan: Sorry, just playing with my food.

INMATE 3: You're crazy!

The INMATES run from him. As they leave, OBI-WAN pays them no mind. MORALO EVAL comes and SITS with him. As MORALO EVAL talks, OBI-WAN stays silent.

Moralo: Rako Hardeen. Your reputation precedes you. I'm curious, when you killed that Jedi, was it for money or revenge?

Obi-Wan: I don't know. Guess I was bored.

MORALO EVAL finds that FUNNY. Chuckling he picks up the SAUCE and scoots it closer to OBI-WAN.

Moralo: Try the sauce. It makes that slop almost tolerable. I'll be seeing you, Mr. Hardeen.

Cut to:

The CLONE GUARDS move OBI-WAN to his CELL via a LIFT. When OBI-WAN enters the CELL. MORALO EVAL and CAD BANE are there.

Clone Guard: Here you go, Hardeen. Home, sweet home. 

Obi-Wan: What a coincidence.

Moralo: No coincidence. I am Moralo Eval, and I have great influence here.

Obi-Wan: What do you want from me?

Moralo: A man like you - There's bigger game than Jedi, if you've got the guts.

Obi-Wan: I'm listening.

Moralo: It's a brilliant plan if I do say so. And it involves the Chancellor.

CAD BANE interrupts them by ROLLING over and SITTING up.

Cad Bane: If I'm breaking out this goon along with us, it'll cost you. Double my rate.

Moralo: Rako Hardeen, meet Cad Bane.

Obi-Wan: Who you calling a goon?

CADE BANE jumps down from his BED and stalks closer.

Cad Bane: Any imbecile can kill a Jedi with a lousy sniper blast. You want my respect? You do it face-to-face.

Obi-Wan: Who said I want your respect?

Cad Bane: Make that triple my rate.

Moralo: Oh, what a shame. Seems this cell isn't big enough for the three of us. Guard! It's been a pleasure chatting with you, Hardeen. But you will forget everything you heard in here, or Moralo Eval will have you slaughtered.

OBI-WAN is ushered out of the CELL by the CLONE GUARDS.

Cut to:

The PRISON GYM is packed. OBI-WAN heads towards one of the MACHINES and CLEARS his throat at two of the INMATES who were using the EQUIPMENT. Nervously, THEY get up.

Inmate 2: We were just leaving.

OBI-WAN makes a SHOW out of STRETCHING and PREPPING. Subtly, OBI-WAN reaches under the MACHINE and pulls out a TRANSMITTER and EARPIECE. Hundreds of STAR MILES away, MACE WINDU and YODA wait in a ROOM for his report.

Obi-Wan: This is Ben. I found the transmitter, but I shall have to make this short. We have a problem. I made contact with Eval. He nearly divulged his kidnap plot, but Cad Bane stopped him.

Mace: Cad Bane? We had no intel they were in league together.

Obi-Wan: It appears Eval's hired Bane to break him out of prison, and the way they were talking, it's imminent.

Yoda: Foolish we were, to believe Bane's capture was without purpose.

Obi-Wan: Yes. Yes, but we can make this work for us. If they do try to escape, I won't let them out of my sight. No doubt he shall lead us to some answers about the plot and possibly to his superiors.

Mace: Good idea, Obi-Wan. Just don't blow your cover. It could take a while to extract you from prison. 

Obi-Wan: Not to worry. I'm starting to enjoy playing the villain.

A CLONE GUARD starts to walk his way.

Obi-Wan: Gotta go!

Cut to: 

Inside the PRISON MESS HALL OBI-WAN goes to eat his LUNCH. BOBA FETT calls to him, angry.

Boba: Hey, Hardeen! You owe me something. 

Obi-Wan: Oh, do I?

Boba: You don't even remember me? That's very insulting.

Obi-Wan: Look, kid, I don't want any trouble.

Boba: You stole a bounty from me, and I want an apology!

The INMATES start to get involved and start CHEERING and CALLING out.

Inmate 1: Kill him, Hardeen, like the Jedi!

Unknown Inmate: What's wrong, Hardeen? Lose your spine?

Obi-Wan: You don't want to do this.

Unkown Inmate: Kill him!

BOBA FETT looks behind him to see CAD BANE nod before he turns to OBI-WAN to ATTACK.

Boba: Oh, yes, I do.

Obi-Wan: I warned you.

OBI-WAN and BOBA fight. It lasts a SHORT TIME and OBI-WAN subdues BOBA FETT before the CLONES come over to BREAK IT UP.

Clone Guards: All right, all right, that's it! Fight's over!

INMATE 3 stops the CLONE GUARDS.

Inmate 3: No, it ain't! You got a problem with Boba, you got a problem with me! 

INMATE 3 attacks OBI-WAN, throwing him across the TABLE. After that, ALL THE INMATES start RIOTING. 

Clone Guard: All right, that's enough, big fella!

Inmate: - Fight! -

The CLONE GUARDS quickly lose control of the PRISON. The INMATES subdue the CLONE GUARDS and begin a RIOT.

Inmates: Let's get them! Let's get them! Riot! Get the guards! Get 'em! Yeah!

Clone Guard: We need reinforcements in here. Now!

Inmate 1: Kill the guards! Riot! Riot!

OBI-WAN gets up from being TOSSED. MORALO EVAL and CAD BANE sit at the TABLE and discuss, calmly, what is happening.

Moralo: What do we do?

Cad Bane: Part of my plan. Paid off the kid to create a diversion.

The BACKUP CLONE GUARDS arrive and open the door. THEY are quickly overwhelmed by the INMATES. Through the DOORS the INMATES escape. Giving CAD BANE and MORALO the perfect opportunity. As they leave, OBI-WAN follows them.

Cad Bane: Let's go.

Woman over Loud Speaker: Facility on lockdown. Facility on lockdown. Facility on lockdown.

Clone Guard.Turn your weapons off stun! Kill the prisoners if you have to!

OBI-WAN catches up to MORALO and CAD BANE.

Obi-Wan: Hey, wait for me.

Cad Bane: No one invited you.

Moralo: He killed a Jedi. He could be helpful.

Cad Bane: Fine. We're wasting time.

ALL THREE begin their escape.

Cut to:

Two CLONE GUARDS are moving a DEAD BODY into a POD.

Clone Guard 1: Uh, I'm telling you, it's gonna be a long night.

They LEAVE. OBI-WAN, CADE BANE, and MORALO come around the CORNER.

Obi-Wan: This is our way out of here. The morgue? This is your brilliant plan?

Cad Bane: Not the first time I've broken out of this stink hole.

The TRIO hurries forward to open the DOORS into the MORGUE. CAD BANE inputs the CODE, but it is DENIED.

Cad Bane: The lock has changed.

Moralo: Your plan has failed.

Cad Bane: Shut up! Let me think.

OBI-WAN darts forward to take off the COVER of the HUB.

Obi-Wan: I can get us inside. I'll re-wire the access port on this door. It'll take some time, so warn me if anyone comes.

Cad Bane: Make it quick.

Making sure NO ONE is watching, OBI-WAN uses the FORCE to engage the lock to UNLOCK. CAD BANE and MORALO hurry back and they all ENTER the MORGUE together.

Obi-Wan: We're in!

Cad Bane: All the riot casualties are sent to the crematorium. From there it's an easy escape.

Clone Guard 1: Another night, another riot.

They hear the GUARDS returning and quickly HIDE in the PODS.

Obi-Wan: The guards are coming back.

Clone Guard 1: You said it, partner. I'll take blasting clankers any day over this.

Clone Guard 2: Yeah, me too, give me droids over this prison scum.

Clone Guard 1: After what just happened up there, we'll need more room in here.

Clone Guard 2: You can say that again.

Clone Guard 1: Here, I'll send these to the cremation center.

The PODS fly downward.

Clone Guard 3: Hey, wait, it looks like a couple of them are showing vital signs.

Clone Guard 4: All right, I'll check it out.

CLONE GUARD 4 opens up the POD containing CAD BANE and gets ATTACKED. Using the CLONE as a SHIELD, CAD BANE gets his hands on a BLASTER. He SHOOTS two GUARDS. OBI-WAN subdues a GUARD, but has a chance to SHOOT him. HE hesitates and the GUARD presses the ALARM. CAD BANE shoots the GUARD.

Cad Bane: What's the matter with you?

Obi-Wan: My blaster jammed.

Cad Bane: Let's go!

They ESCAPE, CAD BANE shooting GUARDS as they go. THEY reach the HANGER and FIGHT their way into a SHIP.

Cut to:

The STOLEN SHIP is docked in a SAFE PLACE. They ALL exit the SHIP and QUICKLY move to another, stealing that one right from under the nose of a MAN.

Cad Bane: Soon as we're off Coruscant, we're safe.

Then, with no warning, CAD BANE punches OBI-WAN in the JAW.

Cad Bane: That's for hesitating during the escape.

Obi-Wan: If it wasn't for me, we'd still be stuck in there.

Cad Bane: Yeah, funny how that worked out.

Man: Hey, my ship! Come back here!

Moralo: You did well in there, Hardeen. Maybe there's a place for you in my plans after all.

Obi-Wan: I'm listening.



Ep 16 - Friends and Enemies

Narrator: Fugitives on the run! Disguised as Jedi killer Rako Hardeen, Obi-Wan Kenobi works undercover to solve a Separatist plot against Chancellor Palpatine. Obi-Wan meets the plot's mastermind, Moralo Eval, breaking him out of jail to gain his trust. But now, Kenobi faces another obstacle, bounty hunter Cad Bane. Can Obi-Wan Kenobi overcome Bane's suspicions? Or will the ruthless criminal see through his disguise and expose the Jedi? Only time will tell.

OBI-WAN KENOBI, CAD BANE, and MORALO EVAL are in their ship. OBI-WAN, disguised as RAKO HARDEEN, is flying. An ALARM is ringing.

Cad Bane: We're coming in too fast, Hardeen. Are you trying to kill us?

Obi-Wan: They'll be waiting for us at every space port. We have to ditch the ship.

Moralo Eval: You mean you're going to intentionally crash us into the swamp?

Obi-Wan: Yeah, that is exactly what I'm gonna do.

Cad Bane: He's right. We have no choice.

Obi-Wan: Get ready for a fast exit.

The viewport of the SHIP is shown; there is enough fog to obscure the view entirely. The screen changes to show the SHIP disappearing into the fog until it is no longer visible. In the next shot, the SHIP is shown dragging over branches; it gets spun and torn apart. It sinks into the swamp.



Cut to:

OBI-WAN stands on top of the ship, which is now halfway swallowed up by the swamp. CAD BANE, followed by MAROLO EVAL, crawls out of the top hatch OBI-WAN presumably used to get out before them. 

Obi-Wan: Nobody can trace us here. The swamp will swallow up the ship.

Moralo Eval: So we leave no trace of our crash. Moralo Eval likes a man who plans ahead.

MORALO EVAL walks past OBI-WAN, who follows him with CAD BANE.

Cad Bane: You do have a plan?

Obi-Wan: Yeah, I know Nal Hutta. We can get a new ship at the Bilbousa Bazaar, but this time, we buy one. Otherwise, we'll have the authorities back on our tail.

Cad Bane: Not so fast. We need to ditch these prison fatigues. We'll have a bounty on our heads for escaping and I don't like to stand out.

They start walking. 

The camera cuts to the three of them in the town. There are GUARDS eyeing them up.

Moralo Eval: That's local security. Keep moving.

Cad Bane: We'll get some new gear and equipment. Pablo's Pawn Shop has everything a bounty hunter needs and more.



Cut to:

PABLOS PAWN SHOP, full of shelves of various items. A TWILEK WOMAN carries a box through the store. CAD BANE is perusing hats.

Cad Bane: Now all I need's a new hat.

Obi-Wan: For trying to blend in, your hat sure makes you stand out.

OBI-WAN is perusing helmets. He picks one up.

Cad Bane: [POINTEDLY] I don't like to hide under a helmet.

PABLO, the shop owner and a Rodian male, approaches CAD BANE. 

Pablo: Is there anything else you desire? A new ship?

Cad Bane: Your choice of weapons is lousy, Pablo.

PABLO is very close to CAD BANE. CAD BANE pushes him away with his arm. 

Cad Bane: Where can I get some quality blasters?

Pablo: I wouldn't be too picky, being on the run like you obviously are.

CAD BANE has a toothpick in his mouth. He takes it out with one hand, and with the other shoves PABLO up against the wall as the TWILEK WOMAN rounds the corner. CAD BANE points the toothpick under PABLOs neck, and the TWILEK WOMAN covers her mouth with her hands in shock. PABLO gags and whimpers in fear.

Cad Bane: I'd keep my mouth shut if I were you, Pablo. We'll get our weapons elsewhere.

The TWILEK WOMAN pleads CAD BANE to stop in her native language. He does, and PABLO collapses to the ground, holding his throat. CAD BANE does not notice or care, and begins to walk out of PABLOS PAWN SHOP. After CAD BANE passes OBI-WAN, OBI-WAN makes a gesture as if he is wondering why CAD BANE had to do that. 

Cad Bane: Thanks for the hat.

CAD BANE and MAROLO EVAL exit PABLOS PAWN SHOP. OBI-WAN sticks behind for a moment and gives the TWILEK WOMAN a few credits.

Obi-Wan: For your trouble.



Cut to: 

OBI-WAN, CAD BANE, and MORALO EVAL are walking away from PABLOS PAWN SHOP.

Obi-Wan: That trader's heard worse threats than yours, Bane. Probably calling the Hutts right now, seeing what kind of bounty there is on us.

Cad Bane: Relax. On this slime-pool, everybody's an outlaw. Besides, they'll be looking for three of us. So we're splitting up. You find a ship, we'll get weapons.

Obi-Wan: Not so fast. If it's all the same to you, I'll get the weapons.

Cad Bane: It's not the same to me. You crashed the ship, you get us a new one.

Moralo Eval: It does seem fair.

CAD BANE and MORALO EVAL walk away from OBI-WAN. As soon as they are out of earshot, CAD BANE speaks.

Cad Bane: Soon as we have a ship, we ditch Hardeen.

Moralo Eval: Really?

Cad Bane: We'll throw him to the Hutts. While they interrogate him, we'll be long gone.

Moralo Eval: Tell me, is this business or personal?

Cad Bane: Both.



Cut to:

OBI-WAN on a NAL HUTTA SHIPYARD, speaking to a TRADER about buying a SHIP.

Obi-Wan: No, no, no. That's my final offer.

The TRADER replies in their native language, which OBI-WAN can presumably understand. He WALKS underneath the SHIP he has just bought and sticks a TRACKING BEACON to it. When he comes out of the other side, the TRADER speaks to him again.

Obi-Wan: All right then, it's a deal.

TRADER says something, then OBI-WAN notices MORALO EVAL and CAD BANE returning.

Obi-Wan: Good timing. Soon as you pay for the ship, we can get moving.

Moralo Eval: With pleasure.

MORALO EVAL pays the TRADER. OBI-WAN turns to speak to CAD BANE.

Obi-Wan: Hey, where's my weapon?

Cad Bane: Won't need it. You're not coming.

Obi-Wan: Says who?

MORALO EVAL and CAD BANE start to enter the ship while OBI-WAN looks on.

Moralo Eval: He doesn't want to split his fee for breaking me out of prison. And also, he despises you.

OBI-WAN gets closer to the boarding ramp.

Obi-Wan: All I know is I'm not going anywhere without my reward.

Moralo Eval: I'm sorry. This is between you two.

MORALO EVAL steps into the ship to leave OBI-WAN and CAD BANE to talk it out.

Obi-Wan: What's it gonna be, Bane?

They are interrupted by the TWILEK WOMAN from PABLOS PAWN SHOP, who is yelling and pointing at them while caressing PABLOs face. She is followed by some GUARDS, as she presumably has reported them to the closest thing Nal Hutta has for a police force.

Cad Bane: Here's your reward, I'm not killing you.

CAD BANE sprays OBI-WAN in the face with a green gas, and then kicks him off the boarding ramp. 

The camera switches to OBI-WANs point of view. The world looks hazy. He is on the ground, surrounded by the TWILEK WOMAN, the GUARDS, and PABLO. A GUARD raises his staff and then brings it down. The screen goes black. OBI-WAN has been knocked out. 



Cut to:

An establishing shot of NAL HUTTA. The TWILEK WOMAN can be heard whooping as her SPEEDER passes by. The CAMERA follows a few other speeders and then jumps to the inside of a CELL. OBI-WAN is unconscious, suspended upside down from the ceiling. He wakes up.

Obi-Wan: Where am I?

Cell Guard: You're a guest of the Hutts. If you do not answer my questions about your two partners, we will not be so hospitable.

Obi-Wan: You call this hospitable?

The CELL GUARD twirls his staff menacingly.

Obi-Wan: Wait. Torture won't be necessary. My partners double-crossed me, but I put a tracking device on their ship. Let me down and I'll tell you the frequency.

The CELL GUARD nods at another GUARD manning a torture device. The GUARD pulls a lever, and OBI-WAN collapses to the ground, headfirst.

Cell Guard: Now tell us the tracking frequency.



Cut to: 

MORALO EVAL is on his SHIP. He is talking to COUNT DOOKU via COMM and has still not quite left NAL HUTTA.

Moralo Eval: Yes, Count Dooku. I'm sorry I was delayed. I'm free now. I'll try to reach Serenno as soon as possible.

Dooku: No more excuses, Eval. Time is running short.

Moralo Eval: Yes, Count Dooku, no more excuses.

COUNT DOOKU hangs up. MORALO EVAL joins CAD BANE in the cockpit.

Cad Bane: You said it yourself, Eval. You're free now. I want my money.

Moralo Eval: After the weapons and the ship, I have very few credits left. You'll be paid when we reach Serenno.

The ship rumbles, and an ALARM starts to blare in MORALO EVAL and CAD BANEs ship. The lights also start flashing red. SMOKE is coming out of the back of the ship. Theyve been HIT. Three SHIPS are behind, firing at them.

Moralo Eval: What is this? Who is attacking us?

Cad Bane: The Hutts!

Moralo Eval: How did they find us so quickly?

Cad Bane: Hardeen, trying to even the score. The engines are fried, we'll have to turn back.



Cut to:

OBI-WANs CELL. OBI-WAN hangs from the ceiling again. The CELL GUARD listens to a report from his COMM with the other GUARD who let down OBI-WAN earlier. 

Hutt Enforcer: [OVER COMM] Their ship will crash soon on Nal Hutta. Be there to capture the fugitives.

Obi-Wan: You found the ship like I said. Our deal was you'd let me go now.

Cell Guard: The deal has changed.

OBI-WAN is not pleased about this. Fortunately, the CELL GUARD turns his back on OBI-WAN, who uses the FORCE to release himself from the ceiling. He lands stealthily and grabs the CELL GUARDs STAFF. The CELL GUARD holds OBI-WANs HELMET in his hands. OBI-WAN slams the bottom of the STAFF against the floor, and the CELL GUARD turns around. OBI-WAN knocks him out with the staff, grabs his HELMET, and puts it on, escaping the CELL.

The camera cuts to OBI-WAN, with his helmet on, running through the city, escaping the Hutts. He climbs up onto the ROOF of a building.

Obi-Wan: This is Ben. I apologize for being out of communication, but the situation was rather tenuous. Although, it now appears things may be on track soon. 

The scene changes from OBI-WAN to his HOLOGRAM in the ROOM where MACE WINDU and YODA are watching the COMM.

Obi-Wan: [VIA COMM] Here's what I need, have the bounty on us removed. If I can win over Cad Bane, I can learn more about Eval's plot. But there can be no more complications. So no matter what reports you hear, do not contact me or send help.

A beat.

Obi-Wan: [VIA COMM] And one more thing, I shall need enough credits to buy a new ship.



Cut to?:

[This is the only scene I could not find online. I dont have Disney+ so this is my best guess at who is speaking, but the words are accurate.]

Palpatine?: Why are you removing the bounty on the three fugitives? 

Mace Windu?: If they're free to move, they could lead us back to Eval's operation.

Palpatine?: Very well. Keep me apprised.



Cut to:

CHANCELLOR PALPATINE and ANAKIN SKYWAKER sit in the CHANCELLORS OFFICE. 

Palpatine: You look troubled, Anakin.

Anakin: How can they expect me to just sit here and do nothing with Obi-Wan's murderer on the loose?

Palpatine: It is possible that they do not trust you to control your feelings.

Anakin: Hardeen killed my master, my best friend! And now he's escaping with Cad Bane and Moralo Eval, and the Jedi Council won't do anything about it!

Palpatine: I have it from a reliable source that the fugitives were last headed towards Nal Hutta. You cannot deny your feelings, Anakin. They are what make you special. If you believe you can stop this plot against me, I trust you.

Anakin: Thank you, Chancellor. You won't regret this.

ANAKIN is halfway out the door before PALPATINE speaks. He does not hear PALPATINE.

Palpatine: No. I won't.

Cut to:

MORALO EVAL and CAD BANE are walking in a crowd. They have not yet left NAL HUTTA. CAD BANE stops MORALO EVAL and points up toward a figure sitting at a table. It is OBI-WAN, still disguised as RAKO HARDEEN. Upon seeing CAD BANE and MORALO EVAL, OBI-WAN salutes them with a MARTINI GLASS in his hand. 

Obi-Wan: Oh, back so soon? Let me guess? You missed me?

Moralo Eval: Watch it!

Obi-Wan: Kill me and you won't get off Nal Hutta.

Moralo Eval: Moralo Eval is running out of time and patience.

Cad Bane: Let the man talk.

Obi-Wan: Look, I've got a ship. You've got the Hutts on your tail, so you make me a partner in everything.

Moralo Eval: [SIGHS] Your deal is accepted.

Cad Bane: No. First I wanna know where you got the credits to buy a ship.

Obi-Wan: You thought you left me for dead, but the Hutts owed me a favor.

Cad Bane: So you had them shoot us down?

Obi-Wan: You would've done the same thing, Bane. The way I see it, we're even now.

Moralo Eval: Now that we're all friends, get me off this festering stink-hole.

OBI-WAN, CAD BANE, and MORALO EVAL walk away from OBI-WANs table as a WAITER comes up to it.

Waiter: Wait, who's going to pay for this mess?

The WAITER is ignored.

Obi-Wan: So about your fee from Eval, a 50/50 split sounds fair to me.

Cad Bane: Over my dead corpse.

Obi-Wan: Don't tempt me.



Cut to:

A SHIP lands on NAL HUTTA. When its landing ramp drops down, ANAKIN SKYWALKER and AHSOKA TANO walk out of it. 

Ahsoka: What makes you think Obi-Wan's murderer is on Nal Hutta?

Anakin: I got a tip from the Chancellor himself.

Ahsoka: How are we gonna find them?

Anakin: Ahsoka, you should know by now. If you want to find a lowlife...

Ahsoka: You start at the saloon.



Cut to:

ANAKIN SKYWALKER and AHSOKA TANO walk into a SALOON with two GUARDS at its entrance. As they enter, TWO TWILEK WOMEN walk out, a SUITOR between them. 

Suitor: Hey, ladies, where are we going next? I love you guys.

Inside the SALOON, there are more GUARDS. They make to block ANAKIN and AHSOKA from entering, but ANAKIN uses the FORCE to throw a GUARDs KNIFE away, barely missing a PATRON and hitting the wall of the SALOON. The rest of the PATRONS cheer at the spectacle. ANAKIN and AHSOKA approach the BAR.

Bartender: The fugitives are already gone.

Anakin: All three of them were here?

Bartender: Two came in, met the third.

Anakin: When did they leave?

Bartender: Nothing's free on Nal Hutta, especially information.

ANAKIN mildly FORCE CHOKES the BARTENDER.

Anakin: I don't have time for games.

Bartender: [GAGGING] You just missed them.

Anakin: [MENACINGLY] Keep talking.

Bartender: I heard one of them say they just bought a ship.

ANAKIN releases the BARTENDER from the FORCE CHOKE. The BARTENDER slams into the counter of the SALOON, and ANAKIN turns away.

Anakin: Let's go, Snips.



Cut to:

An establishing shot of the SENATE BUILDING onCORUSCANT. Inside of it, CLONE CAPTAIN REX gets a COMM call from MACE WINDU. 

Mace Windu: Captain Rex, I need to speak with General Skywalker. He's not responding to my calls.

Rex: Sir, General Skywalker is unavailable.

Mace Windu: Where is he, Captain?

The DOORS behind REX OPEN to reveal CHANCELLOR PALPATINE with MAS AMEDDA, who are exiting CHANCELLOR PALPATINES OFFICE. 

Rex: I can't say, sir.

Mace Windu: You can't or you won't?

CHANCELLOR PALPATINE decides to insert himself into the conversation.

Palpatine: Anakin is on Nal Hutta.

Mace Windu: Nal Hutta?

Palpatine: Protecting me is only postponing the problem, not solving it.

Mace Windu: With all due respect, Chancellor, the Council has a plan in place.

Palpatine: Yes, and so does Moralo Eval, who appears to be several steps ahead of you. For that reason, I asked Anakin to take action. 

The scene changes from REX and PALPATINEs side of the CALL to MACE WINDUs side of the CALL. He is taking it in the same ROOM he received OBI-WANs CALL in earlier. 

Palpatine: He is confident he can find the fugitives and stop this plot against me. I suggest you have more faith in young Skywalker. Captain, if you must escort me home, I'm leaving now.

Rex: Yes, sir.

REX hangs up the call. MACE WINDU turns to address YODA, who is also in the ROOM.

Mace Windu: This is exactly what Obi-Wan didn't want to happen. If I warn him, it could blow his cover, get him killed.

Yoda: Kill Hardeen, Skywalker might. Or die trying, he may. Warn them both, you must. Overdue, the truth is.



Cut to:

ANAKIN SKYWALKER is standing in the SHIPYARD on NAL HUTTA with the TRADER that OBI-WAN bought a SHIP from earlier. The TRADER is speaking to ANAKIN in his native language, presumably about the location of OBI-WAN, CAD BANE, and MORALO EVAL.

Anakin: How do you know they couldn't have gotten very far?

The TRADER replies in their native language.

Anakin: So you only gave them enough fuel to reach the nearest filling station on Orondia, which is owned by your brother?

ANAKIN tosses the TRADER a credit chip. He laughs, and the TRADER laughs with him.

Anakin: Well, that's a nice little money-making scam.

ANAKIN walks over to AHSOKA TANO, who is waiting at the edge of the shipyard.

Ahsoka: We better get going. Orondia's pretty deserted. They may steal a ship there, to throw us off their trail.

Anakin: I like your thinking.



Cut to:

A FILLING STATION on ORONDIA. The TRADERS BROTHER is having a conversation with MORALO EVAL.

Moralo Eval: Here, take it. I just want to get out of here.

MORALO EVAL pays the TRADERS BROTHER, who waves at him. MORALO EVAL walks back to his ship, where CAD BANE and OBI-WAN wait.

Moralo Eval: We're being swindled. Who sells a ship with only enough fuel to get to this lousy rock?

Cad Bane: The way I see it, you keep paying off everybody but me.

Obi-Wan: Yeah, why is that?

The three of them begin to climb back into their SHIP.



Cut to:

A SHIP flies into ORONDIAs orbit. When it gets near to the FILLING STATION, AHSOKA TANO and ANAKIN SKYWALKER are shown sitting in the copilot and pilot seats, respectively. AHSOKA looks out of its viewport and spots CAD BANE, OBI-WAN, and MORALO EVAL getting into their ship.

Ahsoka: Look! It's Cad Bane.

Anakin: Are you sure?

Ahsoka: Ugh, who else wears a hat like that?

Anakin: Good point.

OBI-WAN, CAD BANE, and MORALO EVALs SHIP closes its boarding ramp and takes off. ANAKIN begins to follow them. ANAKIN smirks, and uses his SHIP to BUMP the top of CAD BANE, OBI-WAN, and MORALO EVALs SHIP.

Moralo Eval: Now what?

Cad Bane: Jedi!

A CHASE ensues, ANAKIN tormenting the other SHIP and its riders with various tricks and maneuvers.

Anakin: Take over! I'll bring them down!

ANAKIN gets up, leaving AHSOKA to man their SHIP. ANAKIN exits his SHIP and jumps onto the other SHIP. OBI-WAN sees him land through the viewport.

Obi-Wan: I'll take care of him.

Cad Bane: No! It's my turn to kill a Jedi!

CAD BANE leaves the cockpit, and OBI-WAN looks hesitant to let him go. 

The camera switches to ANAKIN, stabbing his LIGHTSABER through the SHIPs hull, then to CAD BANE exiting his SHIP using his rocket boots. CAD BANE swings underneath the SHIP to its other side using a grappling magnet. He SHOOTS his PISTOL at ANAKIN, who reflects the SHOTS with his LIGHTSABER. A reflected SHOTS hits one of CAD BANEs rocket boots, causing him to fall back onto the outside of the SHIP. CAD BANE continues to use a PISTOL to SHOOT at ANAKIN, who moves closer as he uses his LIGHTSABER to reflect the SHOTS.

CAD BANE and ANAKIN continue fighting, and AHSOKA rams her SHIP against OBI-WANs several times. OBI-WAN shoots the PIPES that line the ground beneath them to cause SMOKE and EXPLOSIONS, and makes several moves that cause ANAKIN and CAD BANE to stumble. 

One of the SHOTS that OBI-WAN makes clouds AHSOKAs view. When the SMOKE clears, there is a low ARC in front of her that she flies over, while OBI-WAN flies under it. OBI-WAN jerks his controls upward and HITS AHSOKAs SHIP, causing both her SHIP and OBI-WANs to CRASH as well as ANAKIN and CAD BANE to fall off of OBI-WANs SHIP onto the ground.

AHSOKA, OBI-WAN, and MORALO EVAL are knocked out.

The first one to WAKE UP is OBI-WAN, in his SHIP. An ALARM is beeping, and OBI-WAN rubs his head as if it hurts.

Obi-Wan: Anakin.

OBI-WAN exits his SHIP in a hurry, drawing his BLASTER but looking for ANAKIN in the SMOKE and DUST of their CRASH. 

The camera cuts to AHSOKA, who also AWAKENS, rubs her head, and moves out of the cockpit.

The camera returns to OBI-WAN, still looking for ANAKIN, who after a minute, TACKLES him to the ground unexpectedly. OBI-WAN pushes ANAKIN off of himself, and they both stand up.

Anakin: You're going to pay for what you did.

ANAKIN goes to PUSH OBI-WAN, who resists.

Obi-Wan: You shouldn't have gotten involved.

They GRAPPLE, and ANAKIN smashes OBI-WAN into a rock wall, then KNEES him. OBI-WAN collapses onto the ground, and ANAKIN ignites his LIGHTSABER.

Anakin: This is for Obi-Wan.

Right before ANAKIN is about to SWING, CAD BANE is seen on the top of the rock wall, and he shoots a CORD at ANAKIN that wraps around ANAKINs LIMBS. 

Cad Bane: You can thank me later, Hardeen.

CAD BANE uses the CORD and his one remaining rocket boot to drag ANAKIN away from OBI-WAN. 

Cad Bane: You had your chance to kill him. Now it's my turn.

ANAKIN flips over and KICKS CAD BANE, then uses the FORCE to draw his LIGHTSABER into his hand. CAD BANE SHOOTS at ANAKIN, who reflects the SHOTS. 

The camera cuts to AHSOKA, who uses Force acrobatics to climb up some PIPES to a vantage point. She can see ANAKIN and CAD BANE fighting, but she cannot reach them easily, as there is a CHASM between them and herself. 

The camera returns to ANAKIN and CAD BANE, still fighting. ANAKIN reflects a SHOT into CAD BANEs BLASTER, causing him to lose it. As he is about to cut through CAD BANE, OBI-WAN TACKLES ANAKIN to the ground. Both of them recover quickly, and OBI-WAN uses hand-to-hand combat skills to FIGHT with ANAKIN. They SCUFFLE for a bit until OBI-WAN gets ANAKIN into a headlock.

Obi-Wan: [WHISPERING] Anakin, don't follow me.

ANAKINs EYES widen as if in realization, then roll back. He has PASSED OUT. OBI-WAN releases ANAKIN onto the ground and stands up. CAD BANE retrieves his blaster and points it at ANAKIN. As he SHOOTS, AHSOKA jumps in to deflect the SHOT. She stands over ANAKINS BODY and defends him until MORALO EVAL walks over and there is a cease fire.

Moralo Eval: The ship is still operational. I got it working. Now let's get out of here.

MORALO EVAL runs back to the SHIP.

Cad Bane: You're lucky we're in a hurry, little lady. We'll have to dance another time.

CAD BANE tips his hat to AHSOKA, then he goes to the SHIP, OBI-WAN following after a moments hesitation. After a beat, AHSOKA deactivates her LIGHTSABERS and bends down to check on ANAKIN, who is still PASSED OUT.

Ahsoka: Master! Master, are you all right?

ANAKIN stirs, groaning and coughing. AHSOKA helps him sit up and then stand while OBI-WANs SHIP takes off with CAD BANE and MORALO EVAL. ANAKIN falls to one knee.

Ahsoka: What is it? What's wrong?

Anakin: That's why I felt a connection. Obi-Wan is still alive.

Ahsoka: I don't understand.

Anakin: I don't, either. But we're gonna get to the bottom of this. Believe me.

AHSOKA helps ANAKIN stand again, and they start to hobble toward their fallen SHIP. The camera zooms out. Fade to black. 



Ep 1 - Revival

[Camera pans in, Domino squad, back facing the camera, is in smoke]

[Rex begins to give his speech from the Rookies Episode, fade to shot of Rexs helmet]



Rex: The name's Rex. But you'll call me Captain or sir. War does not come with a guarantee. No soldier gets the promise of safety
Fives: My designation is trooper 27-5555, sir.
Hevy: We call him Fives. I'm Hevy. This is Echo.
Cody: Im Commander Cody, your new boss
Domino Squad: Sir! Yes Sir!
Rex: Looks like we got ourselves a batch of shinies, Commander.
Fives: Look around, were one and the same, same heart, same blood, your training is in your blood, and my bloods boiling for a fight.
*Various Clones Yelling* *Battle Noises*
Echo: ...This is our war!
[Camera begins to pan out from Rexs helmet, its in the middle between two rows of helmets, Wolff, Hawk and Codys helmets are all shown, camera keeps zooming out faster, showing the evolution from the Phase 1 Clone trooper helmets, more personalized, to the Phase 2 Pre-Stormtrooper helmets, all uniform in color, then an artillery shell blows up the back of the row of helmets, the shockwave destroying the rest of the row and the screen turns orange]

[On screen: A war left unfinished  Until now]

[Gunship flies into Fort Anaxes, where the forces of the Republic are amassing for war, the camera pans past platoons of clones, AT-TEs and more gunships.]

[Anakin walks out of the hangar, with Rex on his right and Hunter from the Bad Batch on his left, shot pans around their backs to a fleet of Venator-class Star Destroyers in the sky, ready to depart]

[Clone Wars Logo appears on screen]

[A door inside the base opens to reveal an older Anakin (RoS outfit) walking in with Obi-Wan behind him, theyve been summoned by Rex, behind them are officers in Imperial-esque uniforms]

Anakin: Alright, Rex, whats so important that you brought us aaaall the way back here?
[Rex looks at Anakin, in view is a hologram of an older Ahsoka,back towards the camera, next to Bo-Katan Kryze in her Nite Owl armor, Ahsoka slowly turns around, Bo follows]

Ahsoka: Hello master, its been awhile
[On screen: #clonewarssaved in title text, trailer ends]


Ep 1 - The Bad Batch
- Narrator: The battle for Anaxes! One of the Republic's largest shipyards is under attack from Admiral Trench's Separatist forces. Jedi Generals Mace Windu and Anakin Skywalker lead a two-pronged assault on the ground and in the air. But after weeks of heated battle and mounting losses, the Republic's grip on Anaxes begins to slip away...

- Mace Windu: The droids have overrun our main production facility. It won't be long before the Separatists take Anaxes, compromising our entire reserve fleet. [As him and Anakin overlook a holo-projector of the shipyard on Anaxes]

- Cody: Pardon the interruption General, but Rex here has a good theory on why we keep losing.

- Mace Windu: Please, Captain.

- Rex: Well the Droid Army uses analytics to predict our strategy. The first time we use a tactic it's very effective, the next, less so. In fact, the more we use a certain tactic, the less effective it becomes. They learn our tendencies, and use that data against us. To counter them, we're constantly out working ways to vary our attack.

- Mace Windu: But the losses we're experiencing on Anaxes are not commonplace.

- Rex: Exactly! The counter attacks are so specific, it's my strategy the droids know, my playbook.

- Cody: My concern is that Rex is one of our best. If the droids can learn to defeat him, we may all be vulnerable.

- Mace Windu: What do you propose?

- Cody: That Rex and me take a small squad behind enemy lines. There's a Separatist Cybercenter which relays all battlefield intel to their command ship. If we're going to find anything, it'll be there.

- Mace Windu: If you think it'll help turn this fight around, get going.

- Anakin Skywalker: Rex, is there anything else?

- Rex: No General.


[Cody and Rex make their way out of the conference room, where we cut to Rex present in the barracks, alone]

- Cody: C'mon Rex, time to move out.

- Rex: Fives, Echo, and before that, Hevy. So many troopers, gone. [As he mournfully looks at a picture of him, Cody, Fives, and Echo]

- Cody: Yeah, regular folk don't understand: Sometimes in war, it's hard to be the one that survives.

- Rex: That's what I'm worried about.

- Cody: What do you mean?

- Rex: I didn't tell the generals, they might think I'm crazy, in fact, you might think I'm crazy.

- Cody: What is it?

- Rex: I think Echo's alive.

- Cody: That's not possible. He died at the Citadel.

- Rex: The way the droids are countering us here, the strategies I'm using, they're all old battle plans Echo and I drew up together.

- Cody: Look, Rex, I here what you're saying, but it's just not possible.

- Rex: I hope you're right. But the fact is, Echo's fingerprints are all over these Separatist strategies.

- Cody: Rex, you have to admit what you're saying is a longshot at best, and most likely, misplaced hope. I need you to be focused on this.

- Rex: I-I know, I know. Don't worry. So, what squad are we taking in?

- Cody: Clone Force 99. [As he walks out of the barracks]

- Jesse (to Kix): I heard mixed feelings about these guys. [As he and Kix are waiting outside the barracks]

- Kix: They have a 100% success rate. - Jesse: It's not that they win, it's how they win that worries me.

- Air Traffic Control Personnel (Loudspeaker): Repeat, coming in hot on platform TT-397.

- ATC Personnel (Loudspeaker): Clear the airfield! I said clear the airfield! [As an unknown shuttle flies into the airfield recklessly]

- Rex (to Cody): So why haven't I heard of this squad? [Making his way to the parked shuttle along with Cody, Jesse, and Kix]

- Cody: Experimental unit: Clone Force 99. The defective clones with uh, desirable mutations.

- Rex: 99 hey? Nice touch. - Cody: They call themselves: "The Bad Batch."

[The main door opens, as the Bad Batch step out of their ship]

- Wrecker: The cavalry has arrived!

- Kix (to Jesse): These guys are clones? They don't look like clones to me.

- Cody: Sergeant, good to see you again.

- Hunter: You too, sir.

- Cody (to Rex, Jesse, and Kix): This is Hunter.

- Hunter: Sorry we're late Commander. We were putting down an insurrection on Yalbec Prime when your comm came in. Had a few unforeseen, complications.

- Wrecker (to Jesse): (Laughs) Ever fought a male Yalbec?

- Jesse: Um, no. Can't say I have.

- Wrecker: You're lucky. They only way to kill them is with one of these: [Holds up a vibroblade]

- Hunter: That's right. Wrecker here cut off the Queen's stinger while she was still alive. That's why all those Yalbec males tried to eat us.

- Tech: Uh, technically, they were trying to mate with us. And for your information: The stinger of a Yalbec Queen is a delicacy on some planets.

- Cody: They call him "Tech."

- Hunter: Yeah, he can fill your head with useless info for hours. Crosshair on the other hand is not much of a conversationalist [pointing at Crosshair], but when you have to hit a precise target from 10 clicks, Crosshair's your man. So Commander, what kind of suicide mission do you have for us this time?

- Cody: Let's get goin', we'll brief you on the way. [The team proceeds to get on an LAAT gunship]

- Jesse (to Crosshair): What are you looking at? [Both staring at each other sternly]

- Crosshair: We don't usually work with "regs." [Flicking his toothpick at Jesse]

- Jesse: "Regs?" [Proceeding to confront Crosshair]

- Hunter: He's talking about "regular clones." But don't take it personal.

- Cody: We're all on the same team, so cut the attitude and listen up. Here's the mission: Our target is this Cybercenter [Holding up a hologram of the Cybercenter]. It's the brains of the entire Separatist campaign here on Anaxes.

- Wrecker: I can demolish that with one hand! Yeah!

- Cody: This isn't a demo job Wrecker. It's strictly a retrieval operation.

- B1 Battle Droid (to Sector 1): Sector 1 alert: Enemy gunship approaching your location. Come in Sector 1. [Spotting the LAAT gunship en route to the Cybercenter]

- B1 Battle Droid (at Sector 1): Roger Roger. Fire! [Upon seeing the gunship in range]

- Clone Pilot: Incoming fire! [As the spider droids start shooting at their ship]

- Wrecker: We're going down! (Laughs) [As the damaged gunship plummets towards the surface]

- Wrecker: We always get shot down when we travel with regs! [As the he and the squad pull themselves out of the crashed ship]

- Kix: Cody! Help! He's trapped! [Seeing Cody trapped inside the ship]

- Rex: We have to do something! I'll get him.

- Hunter: Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa, easy Captain. Wrecker, get 'im out.

- Wrecker: Get back. [Proceeding to lift up the ship]

- Kix: This is ridiculous! He's gonna need help to get Cody out of there!

- Crosshair: (Chuckles) He's going to get the gunship out of there, not Cody.

- Wrecker: Boom. [Picking up Cody, before the gunship explodes]

- Kix: He has internal damage. I can cut the pain. But he needs help fast.

- Crosshair: We all need help [Noticing the marching droids on the horizon]. That blast gave away our position.

- Hunter: Huh, I thought getting shot down gave away our position.

- Rex: Everyone, find cover! We'll hold this position, and let them come to us!

- Hunter: I don't think so, Captain. That's not our style. We prefer going to them. Bad Batch, Plan 82: Shockwave.

- Hunter: Let's get to work. [As the Bad Batch proceed to charge at the droids]

- B1 Battle Droid Commander: Blast them! [Opening fire on the clones]

- Tech: 45, mark 151. [Calculating the trajectory of the droid poppers]

- Hunter: 45, mark 151. [Throwing a droid popper, detonating in mid-air as Crosshair shoots it, disabling several droids]

- Tech: 75, mark 357.

- Hunter: 75, mark 357. [Throwing a droid popper at the platoon of droids]

- B1 Battle Droid: What the--! [Catching the droid popper before being blasted along with most of the platoon by Crosshair]

- Hunter: Spider droids! Fan out! [Noticing the spider droids at the rear of the platoon]

- Wrecker: Anymore? Come on! [After he and the squad defeat the remaining droids]

- Rex (to Hunter): That was some show you put on just now.

- Hunter: Just doing our job, Captain.

- Wrecker (to Crosshair): Hey look Crosshair, this little clanker likes you! (Laughs)

- Crosshair: (Scoffs) Grow up Wrecker.

- Rex: We should move out before reinforcements arrive. Our position has been compromised.


[Some time has passed, when a Separatist Landing Ship arrives at the crash scene, with Commando Droids investigating the area]

- Commando Droid (to Admiral Trench): We wanted to speak to you directly, sir. This infiltration is irregular.

- Admiral Trench (hologram): Were there Jedi with this squad?

- Commando Droid: Just clones. But using tactics like we've never seen before.

- Admiral Trench (hologram): Interesting. They're on foot now, in the middle of nowhere. Sweep the area, locate these clones, and notify me if the incursion escalates. [The Commando Droids proceed to sweep the area, as the Tactical Droid holding the holoprojector returns to the ship]


[-Later that night-]

- Jesse (to Kix): So, I get what makes the other batches unique, but what's so special about Hunter?

- Kix: He can put up with the other three.

- Tech: He was engineered with heightened senses. A place like the Cybercenter, Hunter can feel the electromagnetic frequencies from anywhere on the planet. - Jesse: And here I thought we were smart just using our holomap.

- Tech: Well, maps can be wrong. Hunter never is.

- Rex (to Cody): Hang in there Cody. [Reassuring Cody as he groans in pain]

- Rex (to everyone else): Listen up, we have to move out.

- Crosshair: Commander Cody is in no position to move.

- Rex: Already called in evac. Kix will stay with Cody until it arrives, I'm in charge now. And I've got a plan to get into that Cybercenter.

- Crosshair: If you plan's are so good, why did Commander Cody have to call us in?

- Jesse (to Crosshair): You can't talk to Captain Rex like that!

- Wrecker: Says who!? [Grabbing Jesse by the throat, and lifting him in the air]

- Jesse: Whoa! [Struggling to free himself from Wrecker's grasp]

- Rex: Put him down!

- Crosshair (to Kix): Stay out of it.

- Kix: Hey, watch it! [Confronting Crosshair]

- Tech: Uh, guys, come on!

- Hunter: Wrecker! Drop him, now.

- Wrecker: Aww! [Before dropping Jesse]

- Hunter: Fellas, come on! We're all fighting for the same thing, right? (Sighs) Alright then, let's cut the chatter, and finish what we started. We'll do it your way Captain. For Commander Cody.

- Rex: Okay. Let's gear up and move out.


[-The squad make their way to the Cybercenter-]

- Hunter (to Rex): Not our primary target. It's an outpost, should we take it? [Noticing a Separatist outpost]

- Rex: Probably easier than going around.

- Hunter: Alright, what are your orders? We pick 'em off from the tree line one-by-one?

- Rex: Actually, I was thinking we take a page from your book: Rush them head on.

- Hunter: Hah, I like your style.

- B1 Battle Droid: What the-- Clones! Get them! [Noticing the squad of clones opening fire on them]

- B1 Battle Droid (In the outpost): Hey, you're not on the right-- [Before being shot by the clones as they clear the outpost of droids]

- Wrecker: Is it over already? Aw man! [Noticing the destroyed Battle Droids as he enters the outpost]

- Hunter (to Rex): Not bad, for a reg.

- Rex: Alright, there it is: the Cybercenter.

- Tech: It looks like the Cybercenter itself has minimal guards, about 30 droids. Oh, Wait, wait, I've got a massive signal coming in. A whole platoon of droids is heading this way. [While he's operating on the outpost's computers]

- Hunter: Someone's noticed our handiwork back at the crash site.

- Rex: Yeah. Make sure you keep an eye on those incoming Separatist forces. I wanna know when they reach this outpost.

- Tech: You got it Cap.

- Rex: We've gotta move swiftly.

- Hunter: We'll grab some speeder bikes, and flank them from the back.


[-At the Cybercenter-]

- B1 Battle Droid #1 (to another Battle Droid): Do you know what's going on?

- B1 Battle Droid #2: Maybe it's another-- Hey!-- [Before being stealth killed by Rex and Jesse]

- Rex (to the Bad Batch): Is everyone in position? [Speaking into his comm link]

- Hunter: Affirmative.

- Crosshair: Affirmative.

- Tech (to Rex): Cap, you want to know when those Separatist forces breach the outpost? They're getting their just about now. [Looking at his tracking device]


[-Inside the outpost-]

- Tactical Droid (to Admiral Trench): Sir, we tracked the clone strike team here. They seem to have captured this location and deserted it. I cannot calculate the logic of this assault. [As it and a few Commando Droids investigate the attack on the outpost]

- Admiral Trench (hologram): There is no tactical advantage to taking the outpost. Their target will be the nearby Cybercenter. They must know about the algorithm. Get me in contact with the Cybercenter, at once!

- Admiral Trench ([hologram] to B1 Battle Droid Commander): Put all droids on "alert," an attack is coming!

- B1 Battle Droid Commander: An attack is coming? When? [Before its head is shot off seconds later, as the clones invade the Cybercenter]

- B1 Battle Droid (to other Battle Droids): All units to the front door! [As the clones draw closer to the Cybercenter]

- Tech: Hmm, this is a delicate operation [While hacking the Cybercenter's main door]

- Wrecker: Boom! Hah, you take to long! [As he busts the door open before Tech can unlock it]

- Tech: We're in. [After gaining access to the Cybercenter's main computer room]

- Hunter: Tech, get to work on these computers. We'll go get the regs. [Before he and Wrecker head out to get Rex and Jesse]

- B1 Battle Droid #1: What the--! [Before being killed by Hunter]

- B1 Battle Droid #2 (to Hunter): Hey, where did you come from--?! [Before being knifed by Hunter's vibroblade]

- Rex (to Wrecker): What took you so long Wrecker?

- Wrecker: Hey, this is a "delicate operation."

- Wrecker: Better get in there Cap. [Noticing an MTT coming towards the Cybercenter]


[-Rex makes his way to the computer room-]

- Tech (to Rex): Okay, I'm in. What am I looking for?

- Rex: Here's the algorithm. You're looking for a program using this sequence. [Handing Tech an encryption of the algorithm]

- Tech: Found it! This is strange [As he decrypts the algorithm]. It's not a program, it's a live signal from another planet - Skako Minor.

- Rex: A live signal?


[-Outside of Cybercenter-]

- Hunter (to Crosshair): Crosshair, we're gonna need a lift! [Speaking into his comm link, as he, Wrecker, and Jesse are fending off the incoming Super Battle Droids]

- Crosshair (to Hunter): Not gonna be a problem. [Spotting a Separatist craft in the distance through his scope]


[-Meanwhile at the computer room-]

- Tech: This is audible. [After decrypting the live signal]

- Rex: Patch me in. I wanna hear it. - Tech: What is that? [Upon hearing a garbled voice from the signal]

- Tech: It sounds almost, almost human.

- Rex: It can't be...


[-Meanwhile outside the Cybercenter-]

- B1 Battle Droid: Uh oh-- [Noticing a Battle Droid being shot, before being killed by Crosshair]

- Wrecker (to Hunter and Jesse): We gotta go, now! [Urging the them to fall back inside the Cybercenter]


[-Back in the computer room-]

- Rex: Tech, find out who is sending that signal. Ask who that is.

- *Transmission*: CT-1409. CT-1409.

- Rex: I-I don't believe it! [Perplexed by the voice coming from transmission]

- *Transmission*: CT-1409. CT-1409.

- Hunter (to Rex): We're going. Rex, let's go. Rex, now! [Urging Rex to join them as they're making their way out of the Cybercenter]

- *Transmission*: CT-1409. CT-1409.


[-Back at the outpost, some time later-]

- Tactical Droid (to Admiral Trench): Sir, we have chased the clones out of the center sir. They are retreating back toward Republic lines.

- Admiral Trench (hologram): Did they download anything from the central computer?

- Tactical Droid: There seems to be no intel missing, but there appears to have been a connection made with Skako Minor.

- Admiral Trench (hologram): What??

- Tech (to Rex): That number, Cap? What did it mean? [As the squad make their way back to their shuttle]

- Rex: CT-1409, that was Echo's number. He's alive.



Ep 11 - Shattered

332nd Clone: Watch it! (pointing his blaster at an angry Gar Saxon)
Bo-Katan: You actually captured him, I'm impressed.
Ahsoka Tano: It is what the Council wanted.
Bo-Katan: Still, you succeeded where many have failed.
Ahsoka Tano: I've learned from the best, including you.
Bo-Katan: I wish I was good at something other than war.
Ahsoka Tano: Your people need a new kind of leader.
Bo-Katan: My sister tried that. I never understood her idealism.
Commander Rex: Commander, I have the Council waiting.
Ahsoka Tano: And Master Skywalker, where you able to contact him?
Commander Rex: He was at the meeting when I left to get you.
Bo-Katan: Go on, I can handle this.
Mace Windu (hologram): I sense a plot to destroy the Jedi. The dark side of the force surrounds the Chancellor.
Ki-Adi Mundi (hologram): If he does not give up his emergency powers after the destruction of Grievous, then he should be removed from office.
Mace Windu (hologram): The Jedi Council will have to take control of the Senate in order to secure a peaceful transition.
Yoda (hologram): To a dark place, this line of thought will carry us. Hmm, great care, we must take.
Mace Windu (hologram): I understand you mission was a success.
Ahsoka Tano: Yes, I have Maul in custody. I will escort Commander Rex when he delivers him to Coruscant.
Yoda (hologram): A great service to the Republic, you have done.
Ahsoka Tano: I did my duty as a citizen.
Yoda (hologram): Not as a Jedi.
Ahsoka Tano: No, not yet. Actually, I has hoping to speak with General Skywalker.
Mace Windu (hologram): I sent him to inform the Chancellor that General Grievous has indeed been located on Utapau.
Ahsoka Tano: Master Kenobi?
Yoda (hologram): Engaged the enemy, he has.
Ahsoka Tano: Then the war could be over soon.
Mace Windu (hologram): That depends on the Chancellor.
Ahsoka Tano: What do you mean?
Mace Windu (hologram): I'm sorry citizen. These matters are for the Council to discuss.
Ahsoka Tano: I understand.
Yoda (hologram): Ahsoka, more to say, have you? A message for Skywalker, perhaps?
Ahsoka Tano: No, Master, thank you. I'll tell him myself when I see him.
Yoda (hologram): May the force be with you, Padawan.
Commander Rex: You didn't tell them what Maul said about General Skywalker.
Ahsoka Tano: No, I didn't.
Ahsoka Tano: Impressive. I suspect even Maul couldn't get out of there.
Bo-Katan: A relic of a bygone era, we Mandalorians had reason to imprison you force-wielding maniacs.
Ahsoka Tano: I thought your sister outlawed such devices.
Bo-Katan: She did. This is the last one. Goodbye, Ahsoka Tano.
Ahsoka and Rex proceed to escort Maul to a nearby Venator-class Star Destroyer

Commander Rex: Something on your mind?
Ahsoka Tano: As a Jedi, we were trained to be keepers of the peace, not soldiers. But all I've been since I was a Padawan, is a soldier.
Commander Rex: Well, I've known no other way. Gives us clones all a mixed feeling about the war. Many people, we should never happen. But without it, we clones, wouldn't exist.
Ahsoka Tano: Well, then perhaps some good has come from all of it. The Republic couldn't have asked for better soldiers, nor I, a better friend.
Clone Officer: Commander Rex, the latest briefing has come in.
Commander Rex: Want to have a look? It might have an update on General Kenobi's efforts.
Ahsoka Tano: You go, I'm sure it's more good news.

Force Vision:

Darth Sidious: You must choose! don't listen to him Anakin!
Anakin Skywalker: That's not the Jedi way, he must live!
Mace Windu: He's too dangerous to be kept alive!
Anakin Skywalker: I need him!
Darth Sidious: Unlimited power!
Anakin Skywalker: What have I done?

Ahsoka Tano: Anakin! (after sensing Anakin's fall to the Dark Side)
Darth Sidious (hologram): Execute Order 66.
Commander Rex: Yes, Lord Sidious.
Ahsoka Tano: Rex! It's Anakin. I feel like something terrible has happened.
Ahsoka Tano: Rex?
Commander Rex: No! I'll do it. (to two 332nd clones holding Ahsoka at gunpoint)
Ahsoka Tano: Rex, what's happening?
Commander Rex: Stay back! Find him. find him, Fives. Find him, Fives!
Ahsoka Tano: Rex!
Clones: Get down, get down! Hold your fire, we got her!
Shocktrooper: Sir, are you alright?
Commander Rex: Fine, I'm just tired, is all. I want you to go to the detention level, execute Maul.
Shocktrooper: Yes sir. Alright men!
Commander Rex: Alright, we know Ahsoka Tano's onboard. She's been marked for termination by Order 66. Under this directive, any and all Jedi leadership must be executed for treason against the Republic. Any soldier that does not comply with the order will also be executed for treason. Understood?
Clones: Yes sir!
Commander Rex: There are only so many places to hide on this ship. Gather up search parties, we'll fan out and move section by section. Come on, let's get moving!
Shocktrooper: Look out! (before being force pushed by Ahsoka)
Ahsoka Tano: Don't make me regret this. (after freeing Maul from his cell)
Maul: Ah, you? You survived!
Ahsoka Tano: Is this your doing? Choose your words carefully!
Maul: No, no, it was not my doing. I do not know what has occured, but surely, you have felt it. The voices crying out, the death.
Ahsoka Tano: The clones turned against me, even Rex. I don't know why, they suddenly weren't themselves.
Maul: Oh, brilliant, brilliant! I was not privy to my master's plan, but now, now I see it. He turned the Jedi's own army against them. Well, you've done the right thing by coming to me, only together can we survive this. Now if you will follow my lead-
Ahsoka Tano: You don't understand, I'm not here to team up with you. I need a diversion, and you're it. Now go cause some chaos, it's what you're good at.
Maul: Eh, care to give me a fighting chance?
Ahsoka Tano: I'm not rooting for you. Now get going.
332nd Clone: Sir, we've finished our sweep in the detention level. The prisoner has escaped. There's no sign of Tano or Maul.
Commander Rex: Destroy the escape pods, increase security on the hangar decks.
332nd Clone: Right away sir!
R7-A7 expresses surprise after being activated by Ahsoka

Ahsoka Tano: Shh! R7, I need your help.
R7 expresses concern & confusion regarding the recent turn of events

Ahsoka Tano: I know, I know! Shh! Quiet!
CH-33P and G-G are activated too, R7 continues to express concern about what has happened

Ahsoka Tano: I don't know, I-I don't know why the clones are doing this, but we might be able to do something about it.
The droids respond in agreement

Ahsoka Tano: Are you sure you want to help? It could be dangerous.
The droids respond in excitement

Ahsoka Tano: Okay! Let's get started. R7, patch in to the central computer. Bring up every secure file on Clone Trooper CT-5555.
R7 displays the files to Ahsoka

Ahsoka Tano: Okay Rex, what am I looking for?
Nala Se (hologram): An independent investigation confirms that the Clone Trooper CT-5555 experienced a malfunction with his inhibitor chip. Both the Senate Committee and the Jedi Council have accepted these findings. However, a grievance report was filed by CT-7567.
Ahsoka Tano: R7, bring up that report.
R7 shakes his head, responding that the report is sealed

Ahsoka Tano: It's sealed? Try Anakin's passcode: 8108.
Captain Rex (hologram: I already know this report's gonna fall on deaf ears, but I owe it to Fives to record what I saw. I'm not sure I believe it myself, but, there's a possibility that the inhibitor chips the Kaminoans put inside of us, have a purpose we don't yet fully understand.
332nd Clone: Fall back! Fall back! (retreating from Maul as he advances)
332nd Clone: Ridge is down! Maul is advancing towards the main hangar!
Lieutenant Jesse (via comlink): You must seal the blast doors, stop his advance!
332nd Clone: Seal the blast doors! Now!
Lieutenant Jesse (via comlink): Trooper, did you seal the doors? Trooper, if you read this, seal the doors! We want to redirect his approach! Over.
R7 communicates with CH-33P, then proceeds to intentionally bump into Rex

Commander Rex: Hey! Hey! Out of the way!
CH-33P then seals the blast doors, preventing Rex from reaching the other clones

Commander Rex: Are you crosswired??
R7 and CH-33P respond in content R7 displays a hologram of Ahsoka's message to Rex

Ahsoka Tano (hologram): Rex, I think I know what's happening. I saw your report on Fives, it isn't your fault! You were programmed. Your mind was altered to do this when you were very young. I can help you.
Commander Rex: Where is she?
R7 expresses fear when being held at gunpoint by Rex

Ahsoka Tano: I'm right here.
R7 proceeds to tase Rex, knocking him unconscious

Ahsoka Tano: Careful! We're trying not to hurt him.
Unnamed Clone behind the blast door: We lost the commander! Bring the charges!
Ahsoka Tano: Cheep, are all the doors sealed so the way is clear?
CH-33P responds in affirmation

Ahsoka Tano: Okay, let's get him to the medical bay.
The droids follow Ahsoka while carrying an unconscious Rex with them

Clones: Move it! Move it!
332nd Clone: Start working on these doors!
Ahsoka Tano: R7, run a scan, see if you can find the inhibitor chip the report talked about.
R7 responds, saying that the chip cannot be located

Ahsoka Tano: But the chip has to be there. Check again!
CH-33P warns Ahsoka about the incoming clones

Ahsoka Tano: How close are they?
CH-33P responds nervously, that the clones are very near

Ahsoka Tano: G-G, if they override the door controls, you have to reseal it fast.
G-G agrees, going to the blast door in preparation

Ahsoka Tano: R7, anything?
R7 shakes his head, saying that the chip still hasn't been found

Ahsoka Tano: (begins her incantation) I am one with the force, and the force is with me. I am one with the force, and the force is with me.
Ahsoka Tano & Rex: I am one with the force, and the force is with me. I am one with the force, and the force is with me. I am one with the force, and the force is with me.
Ahsoka Tano: You found it?
R7 confirms that the inhibitor chip is located

Ahsoka Tano: R7, get him under and remove that thing.
R7 asks if their plan will succeed

Ahsoka Tano: I don't know if it will work. But if it doesn't, we're dead anyway.
332nd Clone: Go! Go! (hurrying a fellow 332nd trooper to unseal the blast door)
Ahsoka Tano: Get ready on the door!
G-G goes over to the door controls in response

Ahsoka Tano: The door! G-G, the door! (as she's overwhelmed with blaster bolts)
Ahsoka Tano: Rex? Are you okay? (turning around to see a conscious Rex, anguished)
Commander Rex: Yeah. Yeah kid, I'm okay. Sorry for what happened earlier. I almost killed you.
Ahsoka Tano: How widespread is this?
Commander Rex: Ahsoka, it's all of us. The entire Grand Army of the Republic has been ordered to hunt down, and destroy the Jedi Knights.
Ahsoka, Rex, and the droids turn to the blast door as the clones begin cutting through

Ep 1 - The Mandalorian

[ The Mandalorian is seen walking toward a building, holding a beeping tracking fob. ]

[ Inside a cantina, two trawlers hold a Mythrol. ]

Alpha Trawler: (subtitle) Look at his glands! // (subtitle) I bet we could sell them at the port!

Mythrol: Please! Please! I have credits! Take them!

Alpha Trawler: (subtitle) He's young. The must will be sweet. // (subtitle) And now for the real prize...

[ The Mandalorian enters. ]

Alpha Trawler: (not subtitled) // (subtitle) You spilled my drink... // (subtitle) Hey, Mando! // (subtitle) I said, you spilled, my drink...

Bartender: He says you spilled his drink. // That's fine! It's on me.

Alpha Trawler: (subtitle) Is that real Beskar Steel?

Bartender: Here.

[ Fighting. ]

Mythrol: Thank you. Thank you very much. You got my heartfelt gratitude. // You know what... here, you take my credits. Buy yourself a drink.

[ The Mandalorian places a hologram puck on the table. ]

Mythrol: Uh... Is that a bounty puck? // Is that me? // Look... uh... there must be some mistake. I can get you more credits.

Din Djarin: I can bring you in warm... // or I can bring you in cold.

Title Screen

[ The Mandalorian and the handcuffed Mythrol are walking away from the cantina to a speeder stop. ]

Din Djarin: I need passage to the yards.

[ The ferryman calls a speeder which arrives with an R2 unit as pilot. ]

Din Djarin: No droids.

Ferryman: (subtitle) I assure you, this speeder is brand new. It's the latest model...

[ The Mandalorian tosses the ferryman a coin. ]

Ferryman: (subtitle) At your pleasure.

[ The ferryman calls another speeder, which arrives, in rough shape but with a human pilot. ]

Speeder Pilot: Where to?

[ The speeder flies across the icy plains. ]

Mythrol: You know what he's looking for... // You're looking for Ravinaks, right?

Speeder Pilot: It's clear right now. But be careful near the port. Everyone dumps their gray holds out. They think the whole entire planet is their own personal stink pit.

[ The speeder arrives at the Razor Crest. ]

Speeder Pilot: Here you are.

Mythrol: You're kidding me, right?

Din Djarin: Get out.

[ They get out of the speeder. ]

Mythrol: I'll hire us a Livery Cruiser. No big deal. It won't come out of your end. I'll pay for it. // I'm just trying to make it pleasant.

Speeder Pilot: Hey, it's time to go, so let's settle up.

[ The Mandalorian pays the pilot. ]

Speeder Pilot: I'd stay off the ice if I were you.

[ The speeder takes off. The Mandalorian and the Mythrol get ready to board the Razor Crest. ]

Mythrol: You think there's really something to worry about?

[ He watches the speeder  get eaten by a beast out on the ice. ]

Mythrol: Oh! Oh! Open the hatch! Open the hatch!

[ The Ravinak breaks through the ice toward the Razor Crest. The Mandalorian grabs the Mythrol and drags him into the ship. They get into the cockpit while the Ravinak grabs the Razor Crest's leg. ]

Mythrol: Dank farrik, that was close! Oh, my God. // Oh, my God. // "Stay off the ice." That's the understatement of the millennium.

[ They attempt to take off but the Ravinak holds on to the Razor Crest's leg. ]

Mythrol: It's taking us down. What're you doing? // It's got us! It's gonna take us under!

[ The Mandalorian leaves the cockpit. ]

Mythrol: Where you going? You gotta do something! We gotta get out of here!

[ The Mandalorian electrocutes the Ravinak and it lets go. ]

Mythrol: Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Yes. All right. Whew.

[ The Razor Crest takes off and leaves the planet. ]

[ Cut to the cockpit. ]

Mythrol: I like your ship. She's a classic. // Razor Crest, am I right? Pre-Empire? // I have a lot of credits, by the way. That's why I offered to hail a Cruiser.

[ No response. ]

Mythrol: How much are they paying you?

[ No response. ]

Mythrol: Is it true that you guys never take off your helmets?

[ No response. ]

Mythrol: Oh... Boy.

[ No response. ]

Mythrol: I think I have to use the vacc tube. // I mean I can do it here, but if you've never seen a Fledgling Mythrol evacuate their thorax, you're a lucky guy, trust me.

[ No response. The Mythrol gets up. ]

Mythrol: Clearly, there's nowhere for me to go. So, uh... I'm gonna look for that vacc tube if it's all the same to you?

[ No response. ]

Mythrol: Great.

[ The Mythrol leaves the cockpit and gets down into the belly of the ship. ]

Mythrol: Found it! Thanks. // It might take a while. I'm molting.

[ The Mythrol looks around, opens the weapons hold, and quickly closes it again. ]

Mythrol: Oh, this feels a lot better. // I haven't evacuated since the solstice. // Yeah. // I was hoping to be free for...uh... Life Day. // Maybe even, uh...

[ The Mythrol discovers the bounty hold with several carbon-frozen bounties. ]

Mythrol: Get home to the... family. // But I guess that's not gonna happen this year.

[ The Mandalorian suddenly appears behind the Mythrol. ]

Din Djarin: Probably not.

[ The Mandalorian grabs the Mythrol and shoves him in the on-board carbon-freezing chamber, then adds him to the line of carbon-frozen bounties. ]

[ Cut to the arrival on Nevarro. The Mandalorian walks into a cantina to meet Greef Karga of the Bounty Hunter Guild. ]

Greef Karga: Ah, that was fast. Did you catch them all?

[ The Mandalorian places the tracking fobs on the table. ]

Greef Karga: Good. I'll begin the off-load. // (not subtitled)

[ The Mandalorian sits. Greef Karga places credits on the table. ]

Din Djarin: These are Imperial Credits.

Greef Karga: They still spend.

Din Djarin: I don't know if you heard, but the Empire is gone.

Greef Karga: It's all I've got.

[ The Mandalorian grabs the tracking fobs back. Greef Karga stops him. ]

Greef Karga: Save the theatrics. Fine, I'll...

[ He places different credits on the table. ]

Greef Karga: I can do Calamari Flan But I can only pay half.

Din Djarin: Fine.

[ The Mandalorian places the tracker fobs back on the table and grabs the credits. ]

[ Cut to the crabon-frozen bounties being unloaded from the Razor Crest. ]

[ Cut back to the cantina. ]

Greef Karga: Hmm. I have a bail jumper, a bail jumper, another bail jumper, a wanted smuggler.

Din Djarin: I'll take them all.

Greef Karga: Nah, hold on. // There are other members of the Guild, and this is all I have.

Din Djarin: Why so slow?

Greef Karga: It's not slow at all. Actually, very busy. They just don't want to pay Guild rates. They don't mind if things get sloppy.

Din Djarin: What's your highest bounty?

Greef Karga: Not much. Five thousand.

Din Djarin: That won't even cover fuel these days.

Greef Karga: Hmm. // There is one job.

Din Djarin: Let's see the puck.

Greef Karga: No puck. Face to face. Direct commission. Deep pocket.

Din Djarin: Underworld?

Greef Karga: All I know is no chain code.

[ He pulls out a chit card. ]

Greef Karga: Do you want the chit or not?

[ The Mandalorian grabs the chit card and leaves. He walks through town to a building. He knocks. A sensor eye appears asking for identification in an un-subtitled foreign language. The Mandalorian shows the chit card which the sensor reads, saying something again in an un-subtitled foreign language. The door opens and the Mandalorian enters the building. ]

Client: Greef Karga said you were coming.

[ The Mandalorian walks into the room to stand before the client. ]

Din Djarin: What else did he say?

Client: He said you were the best in the parsec.

[ A door suddenly opens, and before the person even enters, the Mandalorian draws his weapons, as do the stormtroopers. ]

Stormtrooper: Freeze!

Dr. Pershing: No!

Stormtrooper: Drop your weapons!

Dr. Pershing: No, no, no, no. Pardon. Uh, sorry. I... didn't... mean to alarm.

[ The client gets up and walks around the table to stand in front of the Mandalorian. ]

Client: This is Doctor Pershing. // Please excuse his lack of decorum. // His enthusiasm outweighs his discretion. // Please lower your blaster.

Din Djarin: Have them lower theirs first.

Stormtrooper: We have you four to one.

Din Djarin: I like those odds.

[ The client steps closer. ]

Client: He also said you were expensive. Very expensive. Please sit.

[ On a sign from the client the stormtroopers lower their weapons, as does the Mandalorian. He and the client sit. The client unpacks a cloth package. ]

Din Djarin: Beskar?

Client: Go ahead. It's real.

[ The Mandalorian inspects the ingot. ]

Client: This is only a down payment. I have a camtono of Beskar waiting for you upon delivery of the asset.

Dr. Pershing: Alive.

Client: Yes. Alive. Although, I acknowledge that bounty hunting is a complicated profession. This being the case, proof of termination is also acceptable for a lower fee.

Dr. Pershing: That is not what we agreed upon.

Client: I'm simply being pragmatic.

Din Djarin: Let's see the puck.

Client: I'm afraid discretion dictates a less traditional agreement. We can only offer you a tracking fob.

[ Dr. Pershing hands the Mandalorian a tracking fob. ]

Din Djarin: What's the chain code?

Client: We can only provide the last four digits.

Din Djarin: Their age? That's all you can give me?

Client: Yes. They're 50 years old. We can also give you last reported positional data. Between that and the fob, a man of your skill should make short work of this.

[ The Mandalorian gets up and moves to leave. ]

Client: The Beskar belongs back into the hands of a Mandalorian. It is good to restore the natural order of things after a period of such disarray, don't you agree?

[ The Mandalorian leaves. He walks through town and covertly enters an underground facility, sitting down with a Mandalorian armorer. He places credits and the beskar ingot on the table. ]

Armorer: (Inspecting the ingot.) This was gathered in the Great Purge. It is good it is back with the Tribe.

Din Djarin: Yes.

Armorer: A pauldron would be in order. // Has your signet been revealed?

Din Djarin: Not yet.

Armorer: Soon.

[ The armorer prepares to forge the pauldron. ]

Armorer: This is extremely generous. The excess will sponsor many Foundlings.

Din Djarin: That's good. // I was once a Foundling.

Armorer: I know.

[ While the armorer forges the pauldron, the Mandalorian has flashbacks to a moment of his childhood. He is seen carried by his father, accompanied by his mother, making their way through flighting and explosions until he is hidden away. Then the armorer places the pauldron on his shoulder. ]

[ Cut to the Razor Crest approaching, then landing on Arvala-7. The Mandalorian scans the landscape  until suddenly attacked by a blurrg, a second one joining. They fight until the blurrgs are tranquilized by Kuiil. ]

Din Djarin: Thank you.

Kuiil: You are a bounty hunter.

Din Djarin: Yes.

Kuiil: I will help you. // I have spoken.

[ Cut to Kuiil's residence. ]

Kuiil: Many have passed through. // They seek the same one as you.

Din Djarin: Did you help them?

Kuiil: Yes. // They died.

Din Djarin: Well, then I don't know if I want your help.

Kuiil: You do. I can show you to the encampment.

Din Djarin: What's your cut?

Kuiil: Half.

Din Djarin: Half the bounty to guide? Seems steep.

Kuiil: No. Half of the blurrg you helped capture.

Din Djarin: The blurrg? You can keep them both.

Kuiil: No, you will need one. To ride. The way is impossible to pass without a blurrg mount.

Din Djarin: I don't know how to ride blurrg.

Kuiil: I have spoken.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian being thrown by a blurrg. ]

Kuiil: Perhaps if you removed your helmet.

Din Djarin: Perhaps he remembers I tried to roast him.

Kuiil: This is a female. The males are all eaten during mating.

[ The Mandalorian tries again, and gets thrown again. ]

Din Djarin: I don't have time for this. Do you have a Landspeeder or Speeder bike that I could hire?

Kuiil: You are Mandalorian! Your ancestors rode the great Mythosaur. Surely you can ride this young foal.

[ The Mandalorian approaches the blurrg again. ]

Din Djarin: Easy. Easy. Now, all right. Settle down. Whoa! Settle. Settle. That's good. That's good. Easy. Okay. That's good. All right.

[ He finally mounts the blurrg  and it doesn't throw him. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian and Kuiil riding across the landscape on blurrg. ]

Kuiil: That is where you'll find your quarry.

[ The Mandalorian hands Kuiil a bag of credits, but Kuiil waves off. ]

Din Djarin: Please. You deserve this.

Kuiil: Since these ones arrived, this territory has been an endless stream of mercenaries seeking reward and bringing destruction.

Din Djarin: Then why did you guide me?

Kuiil: They do not belong here. Those that live here come to seek peace. There will be no peace until they're gone.

Din Djarin: Then why do you help?

Kuiil: I have never met a Mandalorian. I've only read the stories. If they are true, you will make quick work of it. Then there will again be peace. I have spoken.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian reconning the encampment from a far off cliff edge. ]

Din Djarin: Oh, no. Bounty Droid.

[ Cut to the encampment. ]

IG-11: Subparagraph 16 of the Bondsman Guild protocol waiver compels you to immediately produce said asset.

[ Fighting. The droids shoots all in sight, the rest hole up. ]

Din Djarin: (exasperated) Droids.

IG-11: Subparagraph 16 of the Bondsman Guild protocol waiver compels you to immediately produce said asset.

[ The Mandalorian appears from behind a pillar. ]

Din Djarin: IG Unit! Stand down.

[ A shot from IG-11 throws the Mandalorian backward. ]

Din Djarin: I'm in the Guild!

IG-11: You are a Guild member? I thought I was the only one on assignment.

Din Djarin: That makes two of us. So much for the element of surprise.

IG-11: Sadly, I must ask for your fob. I have already issued the writ of seizure. The bounty is mine.

Din Djarin: Unless I'm mistaken, you are, as of yet, empty-handed.

IG-11: This is true.

Din Djarin: I have a suggestion.

IG-11: Proceed.

Din Djarin: We split the reward.

IG-11: This is acceptable.

Din Djarin: Great. Now let's regroup, out of harm's way, and form a plan.

IG-11: I will of course receive the reputation merits associated with the mission.

Din Djarin: Can we talk about this later?

IG-11: I require an answer if I am to proceed-- Oh, no. Alert. Alert. Alert.

[ Gunfighting. ]

Din Djarin: Let's go!

[ Gunfighting. The Mandalorian pulls out the fob and points to a steel door. ]

Din Djarin: He's in there!

IG-11: Affirmative.

[ Gunfighting. ]

Din Djarin: Up top!

[ They take cover behind pillars while the enemies are surrounding them. ]

IG-11: It appears we are trapped. I will initiate self-destruct sequencing.

Din Djarin: Whoa! You're what?

IG-11: Manufacturers Protocol dictates I cannot be captured. I must self-destruct.

Din Djarin: Do not self-destruct. // Cover me!

[ The Mandalorian attempts to open the door, to no avail. ]

Din Djarin: Go! Go! Go! There's too many!

[ Gunfighting. ]

Din Djarin: They got us pinned.

[ The enemies bring out a heavy gun. ]

IG-11: I will initiate self-destruct.

Din Djarin: Do not self-destruct! We're shooting our way out.

[ They come out of hiding, facing the heavy gun. ]

Din Djarin: Okay...

[ They take cover again. ]

Din Djarin: New plan!

IG-11: Beginning self-destruct countdown.

Din Djarin: No! Stop it! // Draw their fire, I'll take it out.

IG-11: Acceptable.

Din Djarin: Go!

[ The IG unit runs out to draw the fire while the Mandalorian grapples the heavy gun and shoots all remaining enemies. ]

IG-11: Well done. // I will disengage self-destruct initiative.

[ The Mandalorian helps the IG unit up. ]

Din Djarin: You know, you're not so bad. For a droid.

IG-11: Agreed.

Din Djarin: That blaster hit looks nasty. You okay?

IG-11: Running a quick diagnostic. // It has missed my central wiring harness.

Din Djarin: Is that good?

IG-11: Yes.

Din Djarin: Well, now we just need to get the door open.

[ They shoot the door open with the heavy gun. Inside, a lone enemy jumps out  and is shot down. ]

Din Djarin: Anyone else?

IG-11: The tracking fob is still active. My sensors indicate that there is a life form present.

[ The Mandalorian scans the room. The tracking fob leads them to an egg shaped container. He opens it. ]

Din Djarin: Wait. They said 50 years old.

IG-11: Species age differently. // Perhaps it could live many centuries.

[ The Child slowly emerges from a blanket. ]

IG-11: Sadly, we'll never know.

[ The IG unit starts to raise its gun but the Mandalorian stops it. ]

Din Djarin: No. We'll bring it in alive.

IG-11: The commission was quite specific. The asset was to be terminated.

[ A shot is fired. The IG unit drops to the ground, shot down by the Mandalorian. ]




Ep 2 - The Child

[ The Mandalorian is seen walking through a canyon, the egg shaped crib with the Child floating alongside him. Suddenly he is attacked. One of them drops a tracking fob after he is disintegrated. ]

Title Screen

[ Cut to a campfire scene where the Mandalorian is tending to his wound. The Child attempts to help him. He puts it back in the crib. Twice. ]

[ Next morning has the Mandalorian finding his ship being dismantled by Jawas. He disintegrates a few of them and sends them fleeing in their sandcrawler. He follows the sandcrawler and attempts to board it. In the end he falls off to lie in the dirt. He returns to his ship, finding all his weapons gone. An attempt to start the ship is to no avail, so he leaves and returns to Kuiil's residence. ]

Kuiil: I thought you were dead.

[ Kuiil watches the Child. ]

Kuiil: This is what was causing all the fuss?

Din Djarin: I think it's a child.

Kuiil: It is better to deliver it alive then.

Din Djarin: My ship has been destroyed. I'm trapped here.

Kuiil: Stripped. Not destroyed. The Jawas steal. They don't destroy.

Din Djarin: Stolen or destroyed  makes no difference to me.

[ He watches the Child chase a frog. ]

Din Djarin: They're protected by their crawling fortress. There is no way to recover the parts.

Kuiil: You can trade.

Din Djarin: With Jawas? Are you out of your mind?

Kuiil: I will take you to them. I have spoken.

[ The Mandalorian sees the Child devour the frog. ]

Din Djarin: Hey! Spit that out.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian and Kuiil trecking through a rainy night, coming upon the sandcrawler in daylight. ]

Kuiil: (waving) (subtitled) Greetings! // They really don't like you for some reason.

Din Djarin: Well, I did disintegrate a few of them.

Kuiil: You need to drop your rifle.

Din Djarin: I'm a Mandalorian. Weapons are part of my religion.

Kuiil: Then you're not getting your parts back.

Din Djarin: (sighs) Fine.

[ He puts the rifle down. Kuiil dismounts the blurrg, the Mandalorian gets off the sled. ]

Kuiil: And the blaster.

[ The Mandalorian puts the blaster away, and they all sit down. ]

Kuiil: They will trade all the parts for the beskar.

Din Djarin: I'm not gonna trade anything. These are my parts. They stole them from me. // (subtitled) They, they... belong... to me!

Jawa: (subtitled) You speak terrible Jawa. // (subtitled) You sound like a Wookiee.

Din Djarin: You understand this?!

[ He blasts a stream of fire from his vambrace flamethrower at them. ]

Kuiil: No! Whoa, easy, easy. (subtitled) He is Mandalorian. He cannot give you his beskar armor. What else may he trade?

[ The Jawa says something not subtitled and points to the sled. Two Jawas are inspecting the Child. ]

Din Djarin: Get away from it!

[ The Jawas scatter. ]

Kuiil: There must be something else.

[ The Jawa turn to discuss amongst themselves, then turn back around. ]

Jawa: (subtitled) We will require The Egg. Bring us The Egg.

[ Kuiil groans and facepalms. ]

Din Djarin: The Egg? What Egg?

Jawas: (subtitled) The Egg! The Egg! The Egg! The Egg!

[ Everybody travels in the sandcrawler to where The Egg is to be found. The Mandalorian goes to enter the lair of the mudhorn. Once he finds the creature, he proceeds to get trashed by the beast in a mudfight  until the Child uses mind force to stop the mudhorn long enough for the Mandalorian to kill it. Then he retrieves The Egg from the lair. ]

[ Cut to the sandcrawler where the Jawas prepare to leave. ]

Kuiil: Just a little while longer. // Fine. Go without me. // (sighs) [ The Mandalorian appears over the edge. ]

Kuiil: Mando!

Din Djarin: I have it. // I've got The Egg.

[ The Jawas take The Egg, proceed to cut it open and eat its contents. The Mandalorian just shakes his head and meets up with Kuiil. ]

Din Djarin: I'm surprised you waited.

Kuiil: I'm surprised you took so long.

[ Cut to Kuiil and the Mandalorian returning with the sled full of parts, the Child fast asleep in its crib. ]

Kuiil: I it still sleeping?

Din Djarin: Yes.

Kuiil: Was it injured?

Din Djarin: I don't think so. Not physically.

Kuiil: Explain it to me again. I still don't understand what happened.

Din Djarin: Neither do I.

[ At night time they arrive at the ship. ]

Din Djarin: There is no way we're gonna get this to work without a full maintenance facility. This is gonna take days to fix.

Kuiil: If you care to help it might go faster. There is much work to do.

[ Kuiil and the Mandalorian work together to fix the ship while the Child sleeps. ]

Din Djarin: I can't thank you enough. Please allow me to give you a portion of the reward.

Kuiil: I cannot accept. You are my guest, and I am therefore in your service.

Din Djarin: I could use a crew member of your ability. And I can pay handsomely.

Kuiil: I am honoured. But I have worked a lifetime to finally be free of servitude.

Din Djarin: I understand. Then... all I can offer is my thanks.

Kuiil: And I offer mine. Thank you for bringing peace to my valley.

[ Kuiil leaves the ship and mounts his blurrg. ]

Kuiil: And good luck with the Child. May it survive and bring you a handsome reward. I have spoken.

[ The Mandalorian leaves the planet. ]

End.



Ep 3 - The Sin

[ The Mandalorian is seen in the cockpit of the Razor Crest, flying through space. In the background, the Child can be seen climbing out of its crib. A hologram message from Greef Karga pops up. ]

Greef Karga: Mando! I received your transmission. Wonderful news. Upon your return, deliver the quarry directly to the client. I have no idea if he wants to eat it or hang it on his wall but he's very antsy. Safe passage. You know where to find me.

[ In the meantime, the Child has unscrewed the knob of a lever and is chewing on it. Carefully, the Mandalorian takes the knob away. ]

Din Djarin: It's not a toy.

[ He places the Child back in its crib. ]

[ Cut to landing on Nevarro. The Mandalorian exits the Razor Crest, the crib with the Child floating beside him, and walks through town to the building of the client. He knocks and the entry sensor appears. Then the door opens and two stormtroopers appear. They all enter the building. One of the stormtroopers grabs on to the crib. ]

Din Djarin: Easy with that.

Stormtrooper: You take it easy.

[ They enter the room where the client gets up from behind the table with a tracking fob, approaching the floating crib. ]

Client: Yes. Yes, yes, yes.

[ The client and Dr. Pershing inspect the Child. ]

Dr. Pershing: Yes...

[ Dr. Pershing scans the Child. ]

Dr. Pershing: Very healthy. Yes.

Client: Your reputation was not unwarranted.

Din Djarin: How many fobs did you give out?

Client: This asset was of extreme importance to me. I had to ensure its delivery. But to the winner...

[ The client lifts a camtono and places it on the table. ]

Client: ...go the spoils.

[ The client opens the camtono, revealing two large stacks of Beskar ingots (20 altogether). The Mandalorian approaches and takes a couple of ingots to inspect them. ]

Client: Such a large bounty for such a small package.

[ The Mandalorian watches as the floating crib with the Child disappears into the next room with Dr. Pershing. ]

Din Djarin: What are your plans for it?

Client: How uncharacteristic of one of your reputation. You have taken both, commission and payment.

[ More Stormtroopers slowy enter the room. ]

Client: Is it not the code of the guild that these events are now forgotten? That Beskar is enough to make a handsome replacement for your armor. Unfortunately, finding a Mandalorian in these trying times is more difficult than finding the steel.

[ The Mandalorian places the two Beskar ingots back and closes the camtono. ]

Title Screen

[ The Mandalorian walks through town with the camtono, entering the underground tunnels to meet with the armorer. She takes out the Beskar ingots while other Mandalorians approach in the background. ]

Armorer: This amount can be shaped in many ways.

Din Djarin: My armor has lost its integrity. I may need to begin again.

Armorer: Indeed. I can form a full cuirass. This would be in order for your station.

Din Djarin: That would be a great honour.

Armorer: I must warn you, it will draw many eyes.

[ Paz Vizsla walks in and grabs one of the Beskar ingots. ]

Paz Vizsla: (derisive snort) These were cast in an Imperial smelter. These are the spoils of the Great Purge. The reason we live hidden like sandrats.

[ He tosses the ingot back on the table. ]

Armorer: Our secrecy is our survival. Our survival is our strength.

Paz Vizsla: Our strength was once in our numbers. Now we live in the shadows and only come above ground one at a time. Our world was shattered by the Empire with whom this coward shares tables.

[ He steps forward and grabs onto Din Djarin's helmet in an attempt to pull it off. Djarin fights back. They fight until they have each other at knifepoint and the armorer gets up. ]

Armorer: The Empire is no longer, and the Beskar has returned. When one chooses to walk the way of the Mandalore you are both hunter and prey. How can one be a coward if one chooses this way of life? Have you ever removed your helmet?

Din Djarin: No.

Armorer: Has it ever been removed by others?

Din Djarin: Never.

Armorer: This is the way.

Mandalorians: This is the way.

[ Vizsla and Djarin let off each other. ]

Paz Vizsla: This is the way.

Armorer: What caused this damage?

Din Djarin: A mudhon.

Armorer: Then you have earned the mudhorn as your signet. I shall craft it.

[ The Mandalorian and the armorer sit back down. ]

Din Djarin: I can't accept. It... wasn't a noble kill. I was... helped by an enemy.

Armorer: Why would an enemy help you in battle?

Din Djarin: It... did not know it was my enemy.

Armorer: Since you forego a signet I shall use the excess to forge whistling birds.

Din Djarin: Whistling birds will do well. Reserve some for the foundlings.

Armorer: As it should always be. The foundlings are the future. This is the way.

Mandalorians: This is the way.

Din Djarin: This is the way.

[ The armorer turns to forging. ]

Armorer: Whistling birds are a powerful defense against multiple enemies. Use them sparingly for they are rare.

[ While the armorer forges, the Mandalorian experiences flashbacks again. ]

[ Cut to the common house. ]

Greef Karga: Look, I told you I'm not interested in your excuses.

[ Un-subtitled response from the bounty hunter. ]

Greef Karga: You had your shot, dust breather [confirmation needed], but you failed. No pucks for you. Now get outta here.

[ The Mandalorian enters in his new full Beskar armor. Greef Karga discovers him walking towards him. ]

Greef Karga: Ah! Mando! (laughs) They all hate you, Mando. Because you're a legend!

Din Djarin: How many of them had tracking fobs?

Greef Karga: (scoffs) All of them. ALL of them! But not one of them closed the deal. Only you, Mando. Only you. And with it, the richest reward this parsec has ever seen. Please, sit my friend.

[ The Mandalorian takes the rifle off his back and sits. ]

Greef Karga: They're all weighing the Beskar in their minds but not me. No. I, for one, I celebrate your success. Because it is my success as well. Hell... (he partially pulls two Beskar ingots out of this jacket) even I'm rich. Now, how can I show my gratitude to my most valuable partner?

Din Djarin: I want my next job.

Greef Karga: Next job? Take some time off. Enjoy yourself. I'll take you to the Twi'lek healing baths.

Din Djarin: I want my next job.

Greef Karga: Sure. Fine. You hunters like to keep busy, right? Well, these (he places bounty pucks on the table) are all far away.

Din Djarin: The further, the better.

Greef Karga: Well, take your pick. You've earned it.

[ The Mandalorian places one of the pucks on the table and turns on the hologram. ]

Greef Karga: Ah... that's the best of the lot. A nobleman's son. Skipped bail. Looks like you're headed to the ocean dunes of Karnac.

[ The Mandalorian grabs the puck and gets up to leave, then halts. ]

Din Djarin: Any idea what they're gonna do with it?

Greef Karga: With what?

Din Djarin: The kid.

Greef Karga: I didn't ask. It's against the Guild Code.

Din Djarin: They work for the Empire. What are they doing here?

Greef Karga: The Empire is gone, Mando. All that are left are mercenaries and warlords. But if it bothers you, just go back to the Core and report them to the New Republic.

Din Djarin: That's a joke.

Greef Karga: Mando, enjoy your rewards. Buy a camtono of spice. By the time you come out of hyperdrive you will have forgotten all about it.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian entering the Razor Crest. He turns on the controls in the ship, halting when reaching to grab the lever without its knob on the top. He slowly screws the knob on and proceeds to power up the ship. Then halts again. He powers everything down again and leaves the cockpit to march through town. ]

[ Cut to the client's building. The Mandalorian recons the surroundings and finds the discarded crib of the Child. From a rooftop, the Mandalorian listens in on a conversation. ]

Client: I don't care. I order you to extract the necessary material and be done with it.

Dr. Pershing: (intelligble) He has explicitly ordered us to bring it back alive.

Client: Finish your business quickly, as I no longer can guarantee your safety.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian knocking on the front door. The entry sensor appears, which the Mandalorian breaks off to flush out the guard. ]

Stormtrooper: Check the perimeter.

[ The Mandalorian enters the building by blowing out a wall and proceeds to clear the building room by room. He enters the room that holds the Child. ]

Dr. Pershing: No, no, no, no, please. Please. No. No, no.

[ The Mandalorian shoots a hovering IT-O Interrogation Unit, then approaches. ]

Dr. Pershing: No, please. Please, don't hurt him. It's just a child. Please. No. No!

[ The Mandalorian grabs Dr. Pershing and tosses him to the side, then trains his blaster on him. ]

Dr. Pershing: Please. No. No, no!

Din Djarin: What did you do to it?

Dr. Pershing: I....

Din Djarin: What did you do to it?!

Dr. Pershing: I... I protected him! I protected him! If it wasn't for me, he would already be dead! (whimpering) Please... please... please, please...

[ Dr. Pershing looks up from cowering in fear to find the Mandalorian and the Child gone. With the Child in his arms, the Mandalorian proceeds through the building. ]

Stormtrooper: Look, there!

Stormtrooper: Split up. We'll flush him out.

Stormtrooper: Give it up! There's no--

[ He is taken down by the Mandalorian before he can finish. ]

Stormtrooper: Hey!

[ The Mandalorian enters the room where he had met the client. Stormtroopers enter from the otherside. ]

Stormtrooper: Freeze!

Stormtrooper: Don't move!

Stormtrooper: Hands up!

Stormtrooper: Drop the blaster!

Din Djarin: Wait. What I'm holding is very valuable. Here...

[ Slowly, the Mandalorian lowers his blaster and the Child to the ground. ]

Stormtrooper: Now turn and face me!

[ The Mandalorian engages the whistling birds. ]

Stormtrooper: Stand up!

[ The whistling birds fly out and kill the Stormtroopers. The Mandalorian gathers up the Child and his blaster and exits the building. ]

[ Cut to the common house where all the tracking fobs reactivate. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian walking through the town streets. Tracking fobs activate and bounty hunters start following him. He is finally stopped on the main street. ]

Greef Karga: Welcome back, Mando. Now put the package down.

Din Djarin: Step aside. I'm going to my ship.

Greef Karga: Hm. You put the bounty down and perhaps I'll let you pass.

Din Djarin: The kid's coming with me.

Greef Karga: If you truly care about the kid, then you put it on the speeder and we'll discuss terms.

Din Djarin: How do I know I can trust you?

Greef Karga: Because I'm your only hope.

[ The Mandalorian moves towards the speeder, surrounded by bounty hunters with their weapons trained on him. Suddenly he starts shooting and jumps on the speeder, hiding between the cargo. ]

Din Djarin: Drive! (pointing the blaster at the reluctant droid) Drive!

[ The speeder starts moving down the street, a blaster fight all around it. Finally the speeder is stopped by Greef Karga shooting out the droid pilot. From his hiding spot between the cargo, the Mandalorian disintegrates a few bounty hunters, and they take cover. ]

Greef Karga: That's one impressive weapon.

Din Djarin: Here's what I'm gonna do: I'm gonna walk to my ship with the kid and you're gonna let it happen.

Greef Karga: (while waving bounty hunters to surround the speeder) Nah... How about this: WE take the kid, and if you try to stop us we kill you and we strip your body for parts.

[ Meanwhile the Mandalorian has noticed someone creeping up behind him. He kicks him back and electrocutes him. Eventually he gets pinned down though. ]

Greef Karga: Don't hit the target!

[ Just as Mando seems to think about giving up, Mandalorinas appear to fight for him. Greef Karga looks on and then flees. ]

Paz Vizsla: Get outta here. We'll hold them off.

Din Djarin: You're going to have to relocate the covert.

Paz Vizsla: This is the way.

Din Djarin: This is the way.

[ The Mandalorian gathers up the Child and flees toward his ship. Upon entering the ship, someone comes out of the shadows behind him. ]

Greef Karga: Hold it, Mando.

[ The Mandalorian turns to see Greef Karga pointing a blaster at him. ]

Greef Karga: I didn't want it to come to this. But then you broke the Code.

[ The Mandalorian shoots his grappling hook into a pipe which sprays out fumes, in which he disappears. Greef Karga shoots into the mist but eventually gets thrown back by a blast into his chest which the Mandalorian shot through the mist. The Razor Crest takes off, leaving Greef Karga's body behind, as well as the fight between the bounty hunters and the Mandalorians. Greef Karga though is not dead  the Beskar steel ingots saved his life. ]

[ Cut to the Razor Crest cockpit. A Mandalorian with a jetpack appears beside the ship, saluting Djarin before dropping away again. ]

Din Djarin: I gotta get one of those...

[ The Child comes up to the dashboard, reaching for the knob on the lever. The Mandalorian unscrews it and gives it to the Child. ]

[ Cut to the Razor Crest flying away from Nevarro and disappearing into hyperspace. ]

End.




Ep 4 - Sanctuary

[ In a quiet farming village, people are harvesting blue krill. The children are playing. A young girl chases after a frog. ]

Winta: I'm gonna get you!

[ Suddenly, loud noises from the forest. Then all hell breaks loose as bandits move in to raid the village. ]

Stoke: Go, go, go!

Caben: They're back!

Winta: Mama! Mama! Mama!

Omera: Winta!

Winta: Mama!

[ Omera grabs Winta and jumps into a krill pond, waiting out the raid under a basket in the water. ]

Title screen.

[ Cut to the Razor Crest flying through space, then into the cockpit. The Child is seen pushing buttons. ]

Din Djarin: Stop touching things.

[ The Child looks at the Mandalorian innocently and provocatively moves to push another button. The Mandalorian grabs the Child and puts it on his lap. ]

Din Djarin: Let's see... Sorgan. Looks like there is no star port, no industrial centers, no population density. A real backwater skug hole. Which means it's perfect for us. Ready to lay low and stretch your legs for a couple of months, you little womp rat? Nobody's gonna find us here.

[ Cut to the village where Omera and the villagers watch the Razor Crest fly by. ]

Din Djarin: Now listen, I'm gonna go out there and I'm gonna look around. It shouldn't take too long.

[ He gets up and puts the Child on his seat. ]

Din Djarin: Now...don't touch anything! I'll find us some lodging, then I'll come back for you. (firmly) You stay right here. You stay. Don't move. You understand? Great.

[ He leaves the cockpit and opens the ramp, just to find the Child standing right next to him looking up at him with googly eyes. He sighs.]

Din Djarin: Oh, what the hell... Come on.

[ He leaves the ship, the Child following him through the woods. ]

[ Cut to a common house which the Mandalorian and the Child enter. People are looking and pointing as the Child looks around. One woman, looking like a warrior, seems particularly interested in their arrival. The Child is startled by a tooka-cat. They sit at a table. ]

Proprietor: Welcome travellers. Can I interest you in anything?

Din Djarin: Bone broth, for the little one.

Proprietor: Oh, well, you're in luck. I just took down a grinjer, so there's plenty. Can I interest you in a porringer of broth as well?

Din Djarin: (shaking his head) Just the one.

Proprietor: Very well--

Din Djarin: That one over there, when did she arrive?

Proprietor: Uh...I've seen her here for the last week or so.

Din Djarin: What's her business here?

Proprietor: Business? Oh well...there's not much business in Sorgan so I can't say...

[ He tosses some coin on the table. The common house proprietor looks down at it. ]

Proprietor: She doesn't strike me as a log runner...well... (taking the coin) thank you, sir. I will get that broth to you as soon as possible, and I will throw in a flagon of spotchka, just for good measure. I'll be right back with that.

[ The common house proprietor leaves, and the Mandalorian notices that the warrior woman is gone. He gets up and moves to leave, leaving the Child behind at the table. He tosses another coin at the proprietor. ]

Din Djarin: Keep and eye on the kid.

Proprietor: (catching the coin with surprise) Yes, sir.

[ He exits the common house, looking around, then using his HUD to find recent footprints leading between the huts - which suddenly end. He is jumped by the warrior woman and they fight hard and heavy until they have each other at blaster point - at which point they notice a slurping sound. It is the Child, watching them, sipping its broth. ]

Din Djarin: You want some soup?

[ Cut into the common house where the Mandalorian sits with the woman and the Child at a table. ]

Cara Dune: Saw most of my action mopping up after Endor [confirmation needed], mostly ex-Imperial warlords. They wanted it fast and quiet. They'd send us in on the drop ships. No support, just us. Then when the Imps were gone, the politics started. We were peacekeepers, protecting delegates, suppressing riots. Not what I signed up for.

Din Djarin: How'd you end up here?

Cara Dune: Let's just call it an early retirement. (sips) Look, I knew you were Guild. I figured you had a fob on me. That's why I came at you so hard.

Din Djarin: Yeah, that's what I figured.

Cara Dune: Well, this has been a real treat. (she gets up) But unless you wanna go another round, one of us is gonna have to move on, and I was here first.

[ She finishes her soup, sets the cup down and walks away. The Mandalorian turns to the Child. ]

Din Djarin: Well, looks like this planet's taken.

[ Cut to two men riding on a cargo sled through the woods at night until they come upon the Razor Crest where the Mandalorian is working on some repairs. The men approach the Mandalorian. ]

Stoke: Excuse me.

Caben: Excuse me, sir.

Din Djarin: (dismissively) There something I can help you with? (he keeps working)

Caben: Uh...yeah... Raiders.

Stoke: We have money.

Din Djarin: So you think I'm some kind of mercenary?

Stoke: You are a Mandalorian, right?

Caben: Or at least wearing Mandalorian armour... That is Mandalorian armour, right?

Din Djarin: It is.

Caben: See?! I told him. Sir, I've read a lot about your people...er...tri-- tribe... If half of what I read is true--

Stoke: We have money.

Din Djarin: How much?

Caben: It's everything we have, sir. Our whole harvest was stolen.

Stoke: Krill... We're...krill farmers.

Caben: We brew spotchka. Our whole village chipped in.

[ The Mandalorian turns to look at them. Stoke holds up a coin purse. ]

Din Djarin: It's not enough.

[ He walks away. The men follow him. ]

Caben: Are you sure? You don't even know what the job is.

Din Djarin: I know it's not enough. Good luck.

Stoke: This is everything we have. We'll give you more after the next harvest.

[ The Mandalorian opens the hatch in their faces and they stumble back, startled. Then they start to move away, disappointed, as the Mandalorian walks up the ramp. ]

Caben: Come on. Let's head back.

Stoke: Took us the whole day to get here. Now we have to ride back with no protection to the middle of nowhere.

[ The Mandalorian halts and turns. ]

Din Djarin: Where do you live?

[ The two men turn back around. ]

Stoke: At a farm. (dejectedly) Weren't you listening? We're farmers.

Din Djarin: In the middle of nowhere.

Stoke: (confused) Yes.

Din Djarin: You have lodging?

Caben: (hopeful) Yeah. Absolutely.

Din Djarin: Good. Come up and help.

[ The men follow the Mandalorian into his ship. Together they load cargo onto the sled. ]

Din Djarin: I'm gonna need one more thing. Give me those credits.

[ Cut to Cara Dune sitting at a campfire. A coin purse drops beside her and she draws her gun, looking up. The Mandalorian is standing there. ]

Din Djarin: Ready for round two?

[ Cut to the Mandalorian, Cara Dune, and the two farmers on the cargo sled, riding through the woods at night. ]

Cara Dune: So we're basically running off a band of raiders for lunch money?

Din Djarin: They're quartering us is in the middle of nowhere. Last I checked that's a pretty square deal for somebody in your position. Worst case scenario, you tune up your blaster. Best case, we're a deterrent. I can't imagine there's anything living in these trees that an ex-shock trooper couldn't handle.

[ He leans back, as does the Child, watching the stars through the treetops overhead. ]

[ Cut to them arriving in daylight. Cara Dune is asleep on the sled. She is startled awake as the sled comes to a stop, as is the Mandalorian. They look over to see a farming village, children running towards them, laughing. ]

Kid: They're here!

Kid: Come on!

[ The children right away ooh and aah at the Child. ]

Din Djarin: Well, looks like they are happy to see us.

Cara Dune: (smiling) Looks like.

Winta: (to the Child) Hi.

[ Pan from Cara Dune and the Mandalorian getting off the sled, farmers starting to unload the cargo, and the children gathered around the Child to a view of the entire village. ]

[ Cut to Omera pulling up blinds in a hut. The Mandalorian enters. Omera looks at him...with hesitation or apprehension is not clear. ]

Omera: Please come in. (as the Mandalorian walks in with some cargo) I hope this is comfortable for you. Sorry that all we have is the barn.

Din Djarin: This will do fine.

Omera: I stacked some blankets over here.

Din Djarin: Thank you. That's...very kind.

[ Winta appears in the doorway, the Mandalorian rounds on her, and she starts back to hide outside the doorframe. Omera goes to pull her into sight again, holding her tight to her side. ]

Omera: This is my daughter Winta. We don't get a lot of visitors around here. She's not used to strangers. (to Winta) This nice man is going to help protect us from the bad ones.

Winta: Thank you.

[ The Mandalorian just nods near imperceptibly. ]

Omera: Come on, Winta. Let's give our guests some room.

[ She takes Winta's hand, and they leave, while the Mandalorian just stands there, looking on. ]

[ Cut to aerial view of the village, then inside the barn with the Child in a crib and the Mandalorian checking his rifle. ]

Omera: Knock, knock.

Din Djarin: Come in.

[ Omera enters with a tray of food, Winta right behind her. ]

Winta: Can I feed him?

Dina Jarin: (turning around) Sure.

[ Winta kneels by the crib, holding up food. ]

Winta: Are you hungry? (giggles) Can I play with him?

Din Djarin: (sighs) Sure.

[ He takes the Child out of the crib and sets it on the floor. ]

Winta: Come on!

[ Winta leaves the barn with the Child in tow, the Mandalorian set to rush after them, worried. ]

Din Djarin: I don't think--

Omera: (holding him back) They'll be fine.

Din Djarin: I don't--

Omera: (firmly yet softly) They'll be fine. (he backs off) I brought you some food. I noticed you didn't eat out there. I'll leave it here for when I go.

Din Djarin: That's very thoughtful of you. (he turns away)

Omera: Do you mind if I ask you something?

Din Djarin: Go ahead.

Omera: How long has it been since you've taken that off?

Din Djarin: Yesterday.

Omera: I mean in front of someone else.

[ He turns around, then looks and points out the window to where the village children are playing with the Child. ]

Din Djarin: I wasn't much older than they are.

Omera: You haven't shown your face to anyone since you were a kid?

Din Djarin: No. I was...happy that they took me in. My parents were killed, and the Mandalorians took care of me.

Omera: I'm sorry.

Din Djarin: This is the way.

Omera: Let us know if there's anything you need.

Din Djarin: Thank you.

[ Omera leaves. The Mandalorian stands by the window, a cup of drink and the plate of food on the sill, then placing his helmet beside it. ]

[ Cut to Cara Dune and the Mandalorian patrolling in the forest. The forest floor is seen through the Mandalorian's HUD, showing recent footprints. ]

Din Djarin: About 15 or 20 of them came through here on foot.

[ Looking around through the Mandalorian's HUD reveals a lot of recent damage higher up in the trees. ]

Din Djarin: And something big sheared off those branches.

[ They move on, the crouch down next to a gigantic footprint. ]

Cara Dune: AT-ST.

Din Djarin: Imperial Walker. What's it doing here?

Cara Dune: I don't know. But this is more than I signed up for.

[ Cut back to the village. Din Jarin and Cara Dune stand on the porch of the barn addressing the villagers. ]

Din Djarin: Bad news. Y'can't live here anymore.

Stoke: What?

Caben: Why?

Cara Dune: (to the Mandalorian only) Nice bedside manner...

Din Djarin: You think you can do better?

Cara Dune: Can't do much worse. (to the villagers) I know this is not the news you wanted to hear but there are no other options.

Stoke: You took the job!

Caben: Yeah!

Cara Dune: That was before we knew about the AT-ST.

Stoke: What is that?

Cara Dune: The armoured walker with two enormous guns that you knew about and didn't tell us.

Villagers: Help us! // Please!! // You're supposed to help us! // But we hired you! // Please!

Omera: We have nowhere to go.

Cara Dune: Sure you do. This is a big planet. I mean, I've seen a lot smaller.

Caben: My grandparents seeded these pods.

Stoke: It took generations.

Cara Dune: I understand. I do. But there are only two of us.

Stoke: No there's not! There's at least twenty here!

Caben: Yeah!

Cara Dune: I mean fighters. Be realistic.

Caben: We can learn!

Stoke: We can!

Caben: Give us a chance!

Stoke: Please!

Cara Dune: I've seen that thing take out entire companies of soldiers in a matter of minutes.

Omera: We're not leaving.

Cara Dune: You cannot fight that thing.

Din Djarin: Unless we show them how.

Villagers: Show us! // Yeah, we can do this!

[ Cut to the villagers standing around the Mandalorian and Cara Dune. ]

Din Djarin: You got two problems here. You got the bandits, and you got the mech. We'll handle the AT-ST, but you gotta protect us when they come outta the woods. And I don't have to tell you how dangerous they are. Cara Dune here was a veteran. She was a drop soldier for the Rebellion, and she's gonna lay out a plan for you. So listen. Carefully.

Cara Dune: Now, there's nothing on this planet that can damage the legs on this thing. So we're gonna build a trap. We're gonna need to dig real deep, (she points to the edge of the outermost krill pool) right here, so that when it steps in, it drops. (flash forward to the villagers digging with Cara Dune and the Mandalorian watching on the bank and discussing strategics) The two of us will hit their camp, provoke them. That'll bring the fight out of the woods and down here to us.

Din Djarin: I'm gonna need you to cut down trees and build barricades along these edges. (flash forward to the villagers cutting wood and erecting barricades) I need it high enough so that they can't get over, and strong enough so that it can't break through. Okay. Who knows how to shoot?

[ Reluctantly, Omera raises her hand. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian unpacking his arsenal, he and Cara Dune handing out the weapons. ]

[ Cut to Cara Dune working with half of the villagers on melee training, correcting their stance, etc. ]

Cara Dune: Ready, one. Move your leg out. Get ready. One.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian working with the other half on shooting practice. ]

[ Cut back to Cara Dune and her group. ]

Cara Dune: One! (showing Stoke how to do it) One. Get into it. One.

[ Cut back to the Mandalorian and his group. ]

Din Djarin: Fire!

[ The villagers shoot haphazardly, missing more than they're hitting - except for Omera, who shoot true and steady. The Mandalorian nods. ]

[ Cut back to Cara Dune, whose group is making progress. ]

Cara Dune: One! Two! Three! Four! Reset! Louder! (as the view cuts away to an aerial) One! Two!

[ Cut to the Mandalorian in the doorway of a hut. Omera walks out ]

Din Djarin: The sun is about to set and we'll be leaving soon. When we return, we're coming in hot.

Omera: We'll be ready.

[ Cara Dune walks up and nods 'ready' at them. The Mandalorian walks away. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian and Cara Dune running through a night-time forest, sneaking up to the bandit camp. We see two Klatooinians at a small campfire, drinking a blue glowing liquid. Both of them are taken out from behind by the Mandalorian and Cara Dune. They sneak to one of the tents. More Klatooinians sit around a larger campfire, drinking. Cara Dune and the Mandalorian draw their blasters and enter the tent. They find no enemies, just several large vats with the glowing blue liquid. The Mandalorian sets a charge on the main tent post. Cara Dune makes him aware of incoming enemies, which they fight as soon as they enter the tent and take down together. More enemies flood the tent. They fight them off until more enemies come in shooting. The Mandalorian softens up a wall with shots, and the two of them escape just before the charge blows the tent up. ]

Cara Dune: I hope the plan worked.

[ They watch the AT-ST come to live. ]

Din Djarin: Go! (and they turn to run) GO!!!

[ They run, followed and shot at by the AT-ST. ]

[ Cut to the villagers lying in wait, weapons at the ready, children hiding in the huts. ]

Winta: (whispering) It's okay.

[ Cut to the village egde, where Cara Dune and the Mandalorian come running out of the mist and to within the defenses. They slide into cover. ]

Cara Duna: This is it! Once that thing steps in the pond it's going down!

Cara Duna: Weapons ready!

[ They all watch the AT-ST coming closer, breaking through the tree line. ]

Din Djarin: Just a few more steps.

[ The AT-ST hesitates to step in the water and stops on the bank instead. ]

Cara Dune: It stopped.

[ Cut to the AT-ST standing at the outer perimeter of the village, waiting. The villagers waiting in turn. The AT-ST turns on a blinding light. ]

Din Djarin: (forceful whisper) Get down! Get down!

[ The AT-ST's light sweeps the defenses, then opens fire on the huts. ]

Omera: Caben! Stay there!

Cara Dune: Hold your positions!

[ Klatooinians break out of the forest and flood through the AT-ST's legs towards the village. ]

Cara Dune: OPEN FIRE!!!

[ Blaster shots exchanged. ]

Din Djarin: We gotta get that thing to step forward.

Cara Dune: I'm thinking... (fighting continues all around) New plan.

Din Djarin: What do you have in mind.

Cara Dune: Gimme the pulse rifle.

[ The Mandalorian hands over his rifle (a clear sign of trust). ]

Din Djarin: I'll cover you.

[ Cara Dune storms out toward the AT-ST, jumping into cover in the pond before it. ]

Din Djarin: Come on. You got this.

Cara Dune: (aiming the rifle at the AT-ST) Come to mama.

[ She shoots at it and it steps forward but stops short of the pond. She tries again, but needs to remain in cover. ]

[ Cut to Omera. ]

Omera: This is it. It's now or never.

[ The villagers storm forward, fighting the Klatooinians head on. ]

Omera: CABEN, STOKE, GET OUT THERE!!!

[ The AT-ST shoots at where it suspects Cara Dune to hide, but doesn't step forward. ]

Din Djarin: Take the bait, you hunk of junk.

[ Cara Dune shoots into one of the cockpit windows, sending the AT-ST reeling to then finally step forward into the pond where it goes down hard. The Mandalorian activates a charge and runs toward the fallen AT-ST with it, throwing it into the cockpit window before sliding into cover with Cara Dune. The AT-ST blows up. The remaining Klatooinians flee. The villagers sigh with relief and celebrate their victory. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian and Cara Dune in the pond. ]

Din Djarin: Was that the plan?

Cara Dune: (laughing) Something like that.

[ Cut to the village on a new day. The Child is seen chasing and catching a frog, proceeding to eat it, watched by the village children who turn away in amused disgust. The Child spits out the frog, the children laugh and the frog hops away. ]

[ Cut to the barn, Cara Dune sitting out front, the Mandalorian leaning next to the door. Omera comes out and hands Cara Dune a drink. ]

Cara Dune: Thank you.

Omera: (turning to the Mandalorian) Can I set you something in the house?

Din Djarin: Uh...thank you. Maybe later.

Omera: (turning to watch the children) He's very happy here.

Din Djarin: He is.

Omera: Fits right in.

[ Omera walks away. Cara Dune smirks. ]

Cara Dune: So, what happens if you take that thing off? They come after you and kill you?

Din Djarin: No. You just can't ever put it back on again.

Cara Dune: (incredulous) That's it? So, you can slip off the helmet, settle down with that beautiful young widow and raise your kids sitting here sipping spotchka?

Din Djarin: You know, we raised some hell here a few weeks back. It's too much action for a backwater town like this. Word travels fast. You might wanna cycle the charts and move on.

Cara Dune: Wouldn't wanna be the one who's gotta tell him

[ Brief cut to the children playing with the Child with krill. ]

Din Djarin: I'm leaving him here. Travelling with me... that's no life for a kid. I did my job, he's safe. Better chance at a life.

[ Another brief cut to the children playing with the Child. ]

Cara Dune: It's gonna break his little heart.

Din Djarin: He'll get over it. We all do.

[ Cut to someone with a tracking fob walking through the woods. ]

[ Cut back to the village. The Mandalorian walks up behind Omera. ]

Din Djarin: Excuse me. Can I have a word?

Omera: Of course.

[ The Mandalorian leads her away from the others for privacy. ]

Din Djarin: It's very nice here.

Omera: Yes.

Din Djarin: I think it's clear he's... he's happy here.

Omera: What about you?

Din Djarin: Me?

Omera: Are you happy here? We want you to stay. The community is grateful. You can pack all this away in case there's ever trouble. You and your boy could have a good life. He could be a child for a while. Wouldn't that be nice?

Din Djarin: (voice breaking) It would.

[ Omera reaches up to his helmet, (and they are briefly seen through a targeting scope) but just before she can lift it, he stops her gently. ]

Din Djarin: (slowly lowering her hands) I don't belong here. But he does.

Omera: I understand. I will look after him as one of my own.

[ The targeting scope moves to the Child and zooms in. The bounty hunter is seen preparing for the shot. Then a shot rings out. The Mandalorian is startled into action. ]

Din Djarin: Go get the kids.

[ Omera complies immediately. ]

[ Cut to the bounty hunter crumpling to the floor, revealing Cara Dune with a smoking gun behind him. The Mandalorian comes running. With his foot he turns the smoldering body over to reveal the beeping tracking fob. He picks it up. ]

Cara Dune: Who is he tracking?

Din Djarin: The kid.

Cara Dune: They know he's here.

Din Djarin: Yes.

Cara Dune: Then they'll keep coming.

Din Djarin: Yes.

[ He destroys the tracking fob. ]

[ Cut to the Child sitting on the loaded cargo sled with the Mandalorian and a villager loading some more crates. The villagers surround the sled. Cara Dune walks up. ]

Cara Dune: Are you sure you don't want an escort?

Din Djarin: I appreciate the offer. But we're gonna bypass the town and head right to the Razor Crest.

Cara Dune: Well then. (she offers her hand) Until our paths cross.

Din Djarin: (taking her hand) Until our paths cross.

[ Winta runs forward to hug the Child. ]

Winta: I'll miss you so much.

[ Omera turns to the Mandalorian. ]

Omera: Thank you.

[ He just nods. Then he gets onto the sled, and they leave. ]

End.




Ep 5 - The Gunslinger

[ The Razor Crest is seen in space, shot at by a pursuing fighter. ]

Riot Mar: Hand over the Child, Mando.

[ One of the engines is hit. ]

Riot Mar: I might let you live.

[ The Razor Crest is hit again. Then one of the engines is hit again and bursts into flames, then goes out. ]

Din Djarin: Hold on. (he rolls the ship) Come on!

Riot Mar: I can bring you in warm... or I can bring you in cold.

[ The Mandalorian hits the brakes hard, and the fighter overshoots, ending up in the Razor Crests crosshairs. ]

Din Djarin: That's my line. (he shoots the fighter down)

Title Screen

[ Cut to the cockpit of the Razor Crest. ]

Din Djarin: Losing fuel.

[ The ship loses all power and the Child's happy squeal is heard in the background. The Mandalorian looks around, trying some switches, then gets up to turn on the emergency power. Then he powers the ship back up and the engines come on again. ]

Operator: This is Mos Eisley Tower. We are tracking you. Head for bay three-five. Over.

Din Djarin: Copy that. Locked in for three-five.

[ The Razor Crest approaches Tatooine, heads for Mos Eisley, and settles down in the bay. The Mandalorian locks the sleeping Child in a safe room and leaves the ship. Three DUM-series pit droids pop up and approach, but pop down with a screech when they're shot at. ]

Peli Motto: Hey! HEY!!! (she comes out of her office) You damage one of my droids, you pay for it.

Din Djarin: Just keep them away from my ship.

Peli Motto: Yeah? You think that's a good idea, do ya? Let's look at your ship. (she knocks on the hull, and things rattle and klonk inside) Oof... Look at that. Oh, you got a lot of carbon scoring building up top. Ya... If I didn't know better, I'd think you were in a shootout. Special tool for that one. Oh ya, I'm gonna have to rotate that... You got a fuel leak?! Look at that, this is a mess! How did you even land? That's gonna set you back.

Din Djarin: I've got 500 Imperial Credits.

Peli Motto: That's all you got? Well (she turns to the pit droids) what do you guys think? That should at least cover the hangar.

Din Djarin: I'll get you your money.

Peli Motto: Hmm... I've heard that before.

Din Djarin: Just remember--

Peli Motto: (interrupting) Ya. No droids. I heard ya. You don't have to say it twice. (as he walks away) Jeez. Womp rat.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian leaving the hangar, walking through the sandy streets of Mos Eisley, past some stormtrooper helmets on pikes. ]

[ Cut to Peli Motto playing sabacc with the pit droids. ]

Peli Motto: I'm in.

[ The droids are seen cheating. ]

Peli Motto: And I'm gonna raise you three bolts and a motivator.

[ At sounds coming from the ship, they all turn, alarmed. ]

Peli Motto: Shhh! Quick, grab my blaster rifle.

[ Peli Motto approaches the ship, then takes the rifle the droid hands her. ]

Peli Motto: I'd stay in that ship if I were you!

[ She aims at the ramp - where the Child emerges and walks down the ramp, looking very sad. A confused Peli Motto hands the rifle back to the droid and approaches the Child. ]

Peli Motto: Now now. Well... (picking up the Child) Let Peli take a good look at you. All right. Here you go. Did that bounty hunter leave you all alone in that big nasty ship? (to the droid that squawked at her) Oh, how do I know what it is? Gimme a second. (smiling at the Child) All right. Would you like some food? Are you hungry? (to one of the droids) Fetch us something to eat! Quick! I don't know...something with bones in it. (to the Child) Shh... Now here's the plan: I am going to look after you until the Mandalorian gets back. And then I'm gonna charge him extra for watching you. You see how that works? Ya, bright eyes? We're a team.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian entering Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina. He walks up to the EV-series supervisor droid bartender. ]

Din Djarin: Hey, droid. I'm a hunter. I'm looking for some work.

Bartender: Unfortunately, the Bounty Guild no longer operates from Tatooine.

Din Djarin: I'm not looking for Guild work.

Bartender: I am afraid that does not improve your situation. (cut to a man listening in) At least by my calculation.

Toro Calican: Think again, tin can.

[ The Mandalorian turns to look at the man lounging in a booth, feet on the table. ]

Toro Calican: If you're looking for work, have a seat, my friend. Name's Toro. Toro Calican. (when the Mandalorian hesitates) Come on, relax.

[ He takes his feet off the table as the Mandalorian walks over to sit, then places a bounty puck on the table. The hologram pops up. ]

Toro Calican: Picked up this bounty puck before I left the Mid-Rim. Fennec Shand, an assassin. Heard she's been on the run ever since the New Republic put all her employers in lockdown.

Din Djarin: I know the name.

Toro Calican: Ya well, I followed this tracking fob here. Now the positional data suggests she'd headed out beyond the Dune Sea. Should be an easy job.

Din Djarin: Well... (getting up) good luck with that.

Toro Calican: Wait, wait, wait, hey, I thought you needed work.

Din Djarin: How long you been with the Guild?

Toro Calican: Long enough.

Din Djarin: Clearly not. Fennec Shand is an elite mercenary. She made her name killing for all the top crime syndicates, including the Hutts. If you go after her, you won't make it past sunrise.

[ The Mandalorian leaves. Quickly, Toro Calican goes after him, losing his confident facade. ]

Toro Calican: (pressing out) This is my first job. You can keep the money, all of it. I just need this job to get into the Guild. I can't do it alone.

[ The Mandalorian clearly considers the offer. ]

Din Djarin: Meet me at hangar three-five in half an hour. Bring two speeder bikes, and give me the tracking fob.

[ Toro Calican destroys the tracking gob instead of giving it to the Mandalorian. ]

Toro Calican: Don't worry. Got it all memorized.

Din Djarin: Half an hour.

Toro Calican: (looking after the leaving Mandalorian) Looks like you're stuck with me now, partner.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian entering the hangar. He enters his ship, suddenly seeing the safe room hatch open and the Child gone. He races back out of the ship. ]

Din Djarin: HEY!

Peli Motto: (startled) I'm awake! I'm awake!

Din Djarin: Where is he? (questioning a pit droid which folds up in fear instead of answering)

Peli Motto: Quiet! Oh... (rocking the now crying Child in her arms) Shh it's okay. You woke it up. Do you have any idea how long it took me to get it to sleep?

Din Djarin: Give him to me.

Peli Motto: Not so fast! You can't just leave a child all alone like that. You know... you've got an awful lot to learn about raising a young one.

[ The Child, quiet again now, looks at her sweetly. ]

Peli Motto: Anyway, I started the repair on the fuel leak. There you go. (punching the machine) I had a couple setbacks I wanna talk to you about. You know I didn't use any droids as requested, so it took me a lot longer than I expected. But I figured you were good for the money since you have an extra mouth to feed.

Din Djarin: Thank you.

Peli Motto: (surprised) Oh. (following the Mandalorian as he leaves the hangar) Oh I guess I was right. You got a job, didn't you. You know it's costing me a lot of money to keep these droids even powered up.

[ Toro Calican is waiting with two speeder bikes. ]

Toro Calican: Hey, Mando. Whaddya think? Not too shabby, huh?

[ The Mandalorian inspects the bike. ]

Toro Calican: Whaddya expect? This ain't Corellia. (looking at Peli Motta and the Child) Ma'am.

[ The men get on the bikes and speed off. They race over sand and dunes until the Mandalorian signs to hold. ]

Toro Calican: What's going on?

Din Djarin: (pointing ahead) Look. Up ahead.

[ Toro Calican gets off his bike and uses his binoculars seeing two banthas with their riders beside them. ]

Toro Calican: Tusken Raiders. I heard the locals talking about this filth.

Din Djarin: Tuskens think they are the locals. Everyone else is just trespassing.

Toro Calican: Well, whatever they call themselves, they best keep their distance.

Din Djarin: Yeah? Why don't you tell them yourself?

[ Toro Calican turns around to two Tusken Raides standing behind him. He reaches for his blaster. The Mandalorian intercepts. ]

Din Djarin: Relax.

[ The Mandalorian uses sign language to communicate with the Tuskens. ]

Toro Calican: What are you doing?

Din Djarin: Negotiating.

[ More signing. ]

Toro Calican: What's going on?

Din Djarin: We need passage across their land. (to Toro Calican after more signing from the Tuskens) Let me see the binocs.

Toro Calican: Why?

[ No reply, just an outstretched hand. Toro Calican hands the binocs over to the Mandalorian who in turn hands it over to the Tuskens. ]

Toro Calican: Hey! What...?

[ The Mandalorian turns to remount his bike. ]

Toro Calican: Those were brand new.

Din Djarin: Yeah. They were.

[ He leaves, with Toro Calican eventually following. Suddenly the Mandalorian stops again and gets off his bike. ]

Din Djarin: Get down.

Toro Calican: What? Oh...

[ He gets off his bike as well and follows the Mandalorian to take cover behind a dune ridge. ]

Din Djarin: All right. Tell me what you see.

Toro Calican: Dewback. Looks like the rider is still attached. Is that her? Is that the target?

Din Djarin: I don't know. I'll go. (drawing his blaster) You cover me. Stay down.

[ The Mandalorian rushes forward to the beast, approaching more carefully as he gets close. He turns over the body being dragged by the beast. A masked man. ]

Toro Calican: Is it her? Is she dead?

Din Djarin: It's another bounty hunter.

Toro Calican: Hey I hope you're not planning on keeping all that stuff for yourself. Can I at least have that blaster?

[ The Mandalorian finds a beeping tracking fob on the body. Suddenly he jumps up. ]

Din Djarin: Get down!

[ Just as a shot rings out, hitting him on the right pauldron as he turns to run. He goes down and the dewback runs off. ]

Toro Calican: Mando?!

[ Cut to a sniper adjusting the scope. Another shot just as the Mandalorian reaches the ridge, and he is thrown over the top by the hit. ]

Toro Calican: What happened?

Din Djarin: Sniper bolt. Only an MK-modified rifle could make that shot.

Toro Calican: Are you all right?

Din Djarin: Yeah. Hit me in the beskar. And at that range, beskar held up.

Toro Calican: Wait, I don't wear any beskar.

Din Djarin: Nope.

Toro Calican: So what do we do?

Din Djarin: You see where that shot came from?

Toro Calican: Yeah. Came from that ridge.

Din Djarin: Okay. We're gonna wait until dark.

Toro Calican: What if she escapes?

Din Djarin: She's got the high ground. She'll wait for us to make the first move. I'm gonna rest. You take the first watch. Stay low.

[ Cut to the sniper, who opens the visor and reveals that it is Fennec Shand. ]

[ Cut to night-time. ]

Toro Calican: All right, suns are down, (looking back at the Mandalorian) time to ride, Mando.

[ The Mandalorian is settled against the bike, not moving. ]

Toro Calican: (approaching the Mandalorian) Come on. Wake up. (standing in front of the Mandalorian) Look at you. Alseep on the job, old man.

[ He proceeds to play gunslinger in front of the unmoving Mandalorian, pointing his gun at him (and making an ass of himself). ]

Din Djarin: You done?

Toro Calican: Yep. (putting his gun away) Yeah yeah yeah. I was just, uh... ya know... just uh... waking you up. Come on!

Din Djarin: Get on your bike. Ride as fast as you can. Towards those rocks.

Toro Calican: That's your plan? She'll snipe us right off the bikes.

[ The Mandalorian tosses something over. ]

Din Djarin: It's a flash charge. We alternate shots. It'll blind any scope temporarily. Combine that with our speed and we got a chance.

Toro Calican: A chance?

Din Djarin: Hey, you wanted this. Get ready.

[ They start speeding across the valley. The sniper prepares, getting them into her sights, until she is blinded by the first flash from the Mandalorian. She takes her helmet off. She takes a shot, but it goes way wide. ]

Din Djarin: Now!

[ Toro Calican shoots the flash charge just as Fennec Shand shoot, causing her to miss again. Toro Calican's next flash charge misfires and runs across the sand, giving Fennec Shand a chance at a good shot, and she shoots out the bike from under the Mandalorian. He uses a flash charge to blind her again so that Toro Calican can finish getting across. Fennec Shand aims at the Mandalorian and hits him square in the breastplate, knocking him back. She takes aim again, aiming for the exposed underside of his helmet. ]

Toro Calican: Not so fast, Fennec.

[ She pulls out a hidden knife from her rifle and tosses it at Toro Calican, knocking the blaster out of his hand. They fight, she with her hands, he with a blaster, while the Mandalorian is slow to get up down below. Fennec Shand gives Toro Calican a thorough thrashing - until the Mandalorian shows up. ]

Din Djarin: Nice distraction.

[ Fennec Shand lets Toro Calican go, and he gets up under much groaning. ]

Toro Calican: Ow. Yeah. Good work, partner.

Din Djarin: (tossing cuffs to Fennec Shand) Cuff yourself. (to Toro Calican) Why don't you go and find your blaster.

Fennec Shand: A Mandalorian. It's been a long time since I've seen one of your kind. Ever been to Nevarro? I hear things didn't go so well there but... it looks like you got off easy.

Toro Calican: (finding his blaster and holstering it) You don't have to worry about getting to Nevarro or anywhere else once we turn you in. You know I really should thank you. You're my ticket into the Guild.

Fennec Shand: You're welcome.

[ They get down to where the single speeder bike is parked. ]

Fennec Shand: Uh oh... it looks like one of us has to walk.

Din Djarin: (pushing Fennec Shand down to sit) Or we could drag you.

[ The Mandalorian and Toro Calican walk away a short distance. ]

Toro Calican: All right, so... what is the plan?

Din Djarin: I need you to go and find that dewback we saw.

Toro Calican: And leave you here? With my bounty and my ride? Yeah... I don't think so, Mando.

Din Djarin: (after scanning around with his HUD, detecting a heat reading a couple ridges over) Okay. I'll do it. Watch her. And don't let her get near the bike. She's no good to us dead.

[ The Mandalorian walks away. Toro Calican and Fennec Shand wait through the night and into the morning. ]

Fennec Shand: (stretching) Uh... It's been a while. Oh look, the suns are coming up.

Toro Calican: Quiet.

Fennec Shand: Look, there's still time to make my rendezvous in Mos Espa. Take me to it, and I can pay you double the price on my head.

Toro Calican: I don't care about the money.

Fennec Shand: Oh. So the Mandalorian keeps all the money for himself.

Toro Calican: Only because I let him.

Fennec Shand: (laughs) Doesn't seem that way. I mean, it seems like he's calling all the shots.

Toro Calican: Shows what you know. I hired Mando. This is my job. Bringing you in will make me a full member of the Bounty Hunters' Guild.

Fennec Shand: You already something that the Guild values far more than me. You just don't see it.

Toro Calican: What?

Fennec Shand: The Mandalorian. His armour alone's worth more than my bounty.

Toro Calican: I already told you I don't care about the money.

Fennec Shand: Then think what it would do for your reputation. A Mandalorian shot up the Guild on Nevarro. Took some high value target and went rogue.

Toro Calican: That Mandalorian?

Fennec Shand: Like I said, you don't see many. You bring the Guild that traitor and they'll welcome you with open arms. Your name will be legendary.

Toro Calican: How can we be sure he's the one?

Fennec Shand: Word is he still has the target with him. Some say it's a child. Look. If you're afraid to take him on, fear not. I can help you with that. Take some advice, kid. You wanna be a bounty hunter? Make the best deal for yourself and survive.

[ Toro Calican is clearly thinking about the offer and information. He holsters his blaster and walks over to Fennec Shand who gets up, holding her cuffed hands out to him. Suddenly he draws and shoot her at point blank. She drops to the ground. ]

Toro Calican: That's good advice. (crouching down) But if I took those binders off you, I'd be a dead man. And if the Mandalorian's worth more than you are, well... Who wouldn't wanna be a legend? Thanks for the tip.

[ He mounts the bike and speeds off. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian returning on the dewback, finding Fennec Shand left for dead. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian arriving at night in Mos Eisley, riding the dewback. He ties up the beast at the hangar, spotting the speeder bike outside. Drawing his blaster, he enters the hangar. A pit droid runs past him into the office where all three droids fold up in fear. ]

Toro Calican: (unseen) Took you long enough, Mando. (appearing on the Razor Crest's ramp with the Child on his arm and Peli Motto at gunpoint) Looks like I'm calling the shots now, huh, partner? Drop your blaster and raise 'em.

[ The Mandalorian does as he's told. ]

Toro Calican: (shoving the barrel in Peli Motto's back) Cuff him. (raising the blaster to point at the Mandalorian) You're a Guild traitor, Mando.

[ Peli Motto moves to cuff the Mandalorian, she sees he's got a grenade in his hand. ]

Toro Calican: And I'm willing to bet that this here is the target you helped escape.

Peli Motto: (whispering) You're smarter than you look.

Toro Calican: Fennec was right. Bringing you in won't just make me a member of the Guild, it'll make me legendary.

[ As Toro Calican is about to shoot him, the Mandalorian sets off the grenade. It's a flash grenade, blinding Toro Calican, and his shot misses while the Mandalorian disappears. As Toro Calican still shoots at the spot the Mandalorian had been before, the Mandalorian shoots him from the side. Peli Motto comes out of hiding and both approach where Toro Calican has gone down. ]

Din Djarin: Stay back.

Peli Motto: We gotta get it.

[ The Mandalorian turns the body over, but the Child is gone. ]

Peli Motto: Where is it?

[ They look around, and finally Peli Motto spots the Child between some crates. ]

Peli Motto: There you are. Are you hiding from us? (picking the Child up) Look at you. It's alright. I know that was really loud for your big old ears, wasn't it.

[ The Mandalorian takes the coin purse off the body. ]

Peli Motto: (rocking the Child) It's okay. Shh shh shh (as the Mandalorian takes the Child from her) Be careful with him. So I...take it you didn't get paid.

[ The Mandalorian pulls out the purse and pours credit into her hands, which is obviously a lot judging by her expression. ]

Din Djarin: That cover me?

Peli Motto: (incredulous) Yeah... yeah this is gonna cover you.

[ The Mandalorian starts up the ramp to his ship. ]

Peli Motto: All right pit droids! Let's drag this outta here! (in reply to the droids' chittering) I don't know. Drag it to Beggar's Canyon.

[ The droids proceed to drag Toro Calican's body out of the hangar as the Razor Crest's ramp closes and the ship takes off. ]

[ Cut to the desert where Fennec Shand lies in the sand. A booted figure walks up to her body and kneels down next to her. ]

End.



Ep 6 - The Prisoner

[ The Razor Crest is seen landing in a space station hangar bay. The Mandalorian walks through the hangar, stared at by everyone around. ]

Ran: Mando.

[ The Mandalorian turns to find a bearded man. ]

Ran: Is that you under that bucket?

[ The Mandalorian takes the hand the bearded man offers in greeting. ]

Din Djarin: Ran.

Ran: Didn't really know if I'd ever see you in these part again. Good to see you. You know, to be honest, I was a little surprised when you reached out to me. You know, cuz I... I hear things. Like, maybe things between you and the Guild aren't working out.

Din Djarin: I'll be fine.

Ran: Hmm okay. Well, you know the policy. No questions. And you, you're welcome back here anytime.

[ They're walking across a catwalk in the hangar. ]

Din Djarin: So what's the job?

Ran: Yeah, one of our associates ran afoul of some competitors and got himself caught. So I'm putting together a crew to spring him. It's a five person job, I got four. All I need is the ride, and you brought it.

Din Djarin: The ship wasn't part of the deal.

Ran: Well, the Crest is the only reason I let you back in here.

[ The Mandalorian slowly turns to Ran. ]

Ran: What's the look? Is that gratitude? (laughs) Uh-huh, I think it is. (walks away laughing)

[ Ran and the Mandalorian walk into a different area of the hangar. ]

Ran: Hey, Mayfeld.

Mayfeld: (turning) Yeah.

Ran: This is Mando. The guy I was telling you about. We used to do jobs way back when.

Mayfeld: This is the guy?

Ran: Yeah, we were all young, trying to make a name for ourselves. Yeah, but running with a Mandalorian, that was... that brought us some reputation.

Mayfeld: Oh ya? What did he get out of it?

Ran: I asked him that one time. You remember what you said, Mando? Target practice. (laughs) Target practice. Man, we did some crazy stuff, didn't we?

Din Djarin: That was a long time ago.

Ran: Well... Well I don't go out anymore. You understand? So uh... Mayfeld, he's gonna run point on this job. If he says it, it's like it's coming from me. You good with that?

Din Djarin: You tell me.

Ran: (laughs) You haven't changed one bit.

Mayfeld: Ya, well, things have changed around here. (turns and walks away)

Ran: Ya, well, Mayfeld, he's, he's one of the best trigger men I've ever seen. Former Imperial sharpshooter.

Din Djarin: That's not saying much.

Mayfeld: I wasn't a Stormtrooper, wiseass!

Ran: Don't take long, does it? (laughs)

[ Cut to the Razor Crest sitting in the hangar. ]

Mayfeld: Razor Crest? I can't believe that thing can fly. Looks like a Canto Bight slot machine.

[ Mayfeld and the Mandalorian walk up to a group of people near the Razor Crest. ]

Mayfeld: Alright, the good looking fella there with the horns, that's Burg.

[ Burg drops a huge crate he is carrying. ]

Mayfeld: This may surprise you, but he's our muscle.

[ Burg comes to inspect the Mandalorian from up close. ]

Burg: So this is a Mandalorian. I thought they'd be bigger.

Mayfeld: Droid's name is Zero.

[ The droid Q9-0 aka Zero walks up to them. ]

Din Djarin: I thought you said you had four.

Xi'an: He does.

[ The Mandalorian turns slowly to find a purple skinned female Twi'lek walking up, playing with a knife. ]

Xi'an: Hello, Mando.

Din Djarin: Xi'an.

Xi'an: Tell me why I shouldn't cut you down where you stand?

[ Suddenly she attacks, the knife ending up at his throat. He does not flinch. ]

Din Djarin: Nice to see you too.

Xi'an: (laughs) I missed you. (clinking the knife against the beskar armour) This is shiny. You wear it well.

Mayfeld: Do we need to leave the room or something?

Ran: Well, Xi'an's been a little heartbroken since Mando left our group.

Mayfeld: Aawww...you gonna be okay, sweetheart?

Xi'an: I'm all business now. (pointing her knife at the Mandalorian) Learned from the best.

Ran: All right, lovebirds. Break it up till you get on the ship. Right now, we don't have much time.

[ They walk toward the Razor Crest. Xi'an turns back and winks at the Mandalorian. Burg steps in front of him again, looking him up and down. ]

Burg: Hnn.... Tiny. (laughs)

Title Screen

[ Cut to Zero in the Razor Crest cockpit. ]

Zero: Fuel. Navigation. Hyperdrive. Landing gear. Comms.

[ A distorted hologram message from Greef Karga pops up. ]

Zero: Hmm.

[ Cut to the outside. ]

Mayfeld: So, package is being moved on a fortified transport ship. (bringing up a hologram) Now, we got a limited window to board, find our friend, get'im outta there, before they make their jump.

Din Djarin: That's a New Republic prison ship. Your man wasn't taken by a rival syndicate, he was arrested.

Mayfeld: So what?

Ran: A job is a job.

Din Djarin: That's a max security transport, and I'm not looking for that kind of heat.

Ran: Well, neither are we. So just don't mess up.

Xi'an: The good news for you is the ship is manned by droids. Still hate the machines, Mando?

Zero: (coming down the ramp) Despite recent modifications the ship is still quite a mess. The power lines are leaking. The navigation is intermittent. And he hyperdrive is only operating at 67.3% efficiency. We have much better ships. Why are we using this one?

Ran: 'Cause the Razor Crest is off the old Imperial and the New Republic grid. It's a ghost.

Mayfeld: Yeah. And we need a ship that can get close enough to jam New Republic code. So, when we drop out of hyperspace here, if we immediately bank into this kinda attitude, we should be right in their blind spot, which should give us just enough time for your ship to scramble our signal.

Din Djarin: It's not possible. Even for the Crest.

Ran: That's why he's (nodding to Zero) flying.

[ Mayfeld laughs. ]

Ran: Mando, I know you're a pretty good pilot, but we need you on the trigger, not on the wheel.

Zero: Don't worry, Mandalorian, my response time is quicker than organics, and I'm smarter too.

Ran: Alright, ya, that's good. Forgive the programming. He's a little rough around the edges. But he is the best.

Din Djarin: How can you trust it?

Ran: You know me, man, I don't trust anybody. (watching the Mandalorian walking up the ramp) Just like the good old days, Mando, huh?

[ The Mandalorian doesn't reply, just closes the ramp. The Razor Crest takes off. ]

[ Cut to inside the Razor Crest, where Xi'an is balancing a knife point on her fingertip and Burg is pacing. ]

Xi'an: (exasperated) Will you sit. Down.

[ Burg hits something, Xi'an hisses at him. He laughs. ]

[ Cut to the cockpit with Zero at the wheel and the Mandalorian lingering in the background. ]

Zero: Calculations complete. Jumping to hyperspace...now. Feel free to join the others. I will handle it from here.

[ The Mandalorian leaves the cockpit. ]

[ Cut to down below. Burg opens the weapons vault and laughs in glee at the sight. The Mandalorian drops down from the cockpit and closes the vault on Burg. Mad, he reaches for the release of the safe room, which the Mandalorian stops with a heavy hand. They enter into a staring match. ]

Mayfeld: Hey, hey, hey. Okay. Okay. Okay, I get it. I'm a little particular about my personal space too. So let's just do this job. We get in, we get out, and you don't have to see our faces anymore.

Burg: Someone tell me why we even a Mandalorian.

Mayfeld: Well, apparently they're the greatest warriors in the galaxy. So they say.

Burg: Then why are they all dead?

[ Everyone (except the Mandalorian) laughs. ]

Mayfeld: Well, you flew with him, Xi'an. Is he as good as they say?

Xi'an: Ask him about the job on Alzoc III.

Din Djarin: I did what I had to.

Xi'an: Oh, but you liked it. See, I know who you really are.

Mayfeld: He never takes off the helmet?

Xi'an: (shaking her head with a chuckle, then mockingly) This is the way.

Mayfeld: Hmm... I wonder what you look like under there. Maybe he's a Gungan. Is that why...yousa don't wanna show your face?

[ Burg and Xi'an laugh. ]

Mayfeld: (to Xi'an) You ever seen his face?

Xi'an: A lady...never tells.

Mayfeld: Aw, come on, Mando. We all gotta trust each other here. You gotta show us something. Come on, just lift the helmet up. Come on. Let's all see your eyes.

[ Mayfeld nods at Burg who then moves in. ]

Burg: I'll do--

[ The Mandalorian grabs Burg's hand hard and twists his arm on his back, Burg fights back, the Mandalorian kicks him back, and as Burg grapples for something to hold on to, he hits the release button for the safe room, and the hatch opens, revealing the Child. ]

Mayfeld: Whoa! What is that? You get lonely up here, buddy? Huh? Wait a minute... (gesturing between the Mandalorian and Xi'an) did you two make that? Huh? What is it? Like...a pet or something?

Din Djarin: Yeah. Something like that.

Xi'an: Didn't take you for the type. Maybe that code of yours has made you soft.

Mayfeld: Me, I was never really into pets. Yeah, didn't have the temperament. Patience, you know. I mean, I tried but... never worked out. What I'm thinking... maybe... (picking the Child up) I'll try again with this little fella. Huh?

[ Mayfeld pretends to drop the Child and the Mandalorian flinches in response. Xi'an and Mayfeld laugh at him. ]

Zero: Dropping out of hyperspace...now.

[ Everybody fights for balance. ]

Zero: Commencing final approach...now. Cloaking signal...now.

[ The ship rolls and everybody is thrown around the cabin. Mayfeld drops the Child, the Mandalorian diving after it. ]

Zero: Engaging coupling...now.

[ The Razor Crest docks to the transport. The Mandalorian places the Child back in the safe room. ]

Zero: Coupling confirmed. We are down. And relax. Commence extraction...now.

Xi'an: That useless droid didn't even us a proper countdown.

[ Burg tosses some crates around. ]

Mayfeld: Zee...you sure they can't see us?

Zero: The Razor Crest is scrambling our signature, and I'm inside the prison system. It's impressive that this gunship has survived the Empire without being impounded.

Mayfeld: Alright, we got a job to do, Mando, you're up.

[ The crew watches as the Mandalorian hacks the opening mechanism of the prison ship's hatch. ]

Mayfeld: It's me?

Burg: Always you.

[ Mayfeld drops down into the halls of the prison ship, evading some droids. Next is Xi'an. ]

Mayfeld: Zero. Get is to the control room.

[ Next to drop in is Burg. In the cockpit, Zero searches the prison system. ]

Zero: Sub-level three. Disabling on-board surveillance.

[ The Mandalorian drops in last after another look at the closed safe room. ]

Mayfeld: All right, we're on the clock. Second we engage those droids they're gonna be all over us.

DIn Djarin: I know the drill.

Zero: Bio trackers activated. I've got eyes.

Mayfeld: All right, let's go.

[ They move through the corridors, looking into prison cells. ]

Din Djarin: I don't like this.

Xi'an: You always were paranoid.

Mayfeld: (mocking) Is that true, Mando? Are you always paranoid?

[ Mayfeld is startled by a prisoner slamming against his cell door. Xi'an and Burg laugh. ]

Zero: Approaching control room. Make a left at the next juncture.

[ A MSE-6 series repair droid rounds the corner, putting everyone on edge - except Burg. ]

Burg: What? It's just a little mousey. (drawing his blaster behind his back and approaching the droid) Come here, little mousey.

Mayfeld: (whispering in the background) Burg...

Burg: Mousey, come here. Come here.

Mayfeld: Burg!

[ When the droid tries to flee, Burg blasts it. ]

Mayfeld: No! Burg! What're you doing?

Burg: What?!

[ Security droids round the corner. ]

Droid: Intruder alert. Open fire.

[ A gunfight ensues. ]

Xi'an: We're too exposed here!

Mayfeld: They get a signal out it's not gonna matter! // Mando, let's go! You're supposed to be some special--

[ The Mandalorian has disappeared. ]

Mayfeld: I knew it! I knew it!

[ The Mandalorian appears behind the attacking droids taking them out in a melee fight while the others look on. ]

Mayfeld: (walking past the Mandalorian) Make sure you clean up your mess.

[ Burg shoulders past the Mandalorian as they all carry on. ]

Zero: It seems your presence has been detected. Redirecting security alert away from your position.

Mayfeld: Zee, open the door!

Zero: But I'm detecting an organic signature.

Mayfeld: Ya okay all right. Just open the door!

[ The door to the control room opens. There is one human guard inside. ]

Guard: (brandishing a blaster) Stop! Just...stop...right there! You put down the blasters right now.

Mayfeld: Nice shoes.

Guard: Put down your blasters.

Mayfeld: Matches his belt.

[ Burg laughs. ]

Din Djarin: There were only supposed to be droids on this ship.

Mayfeld: Hang on, hang on. See here uh...cell two-two-one. All right, now for our well dressed friend...

[ The guard pulls out a tracking beacon. ]

Mayfeld: Whoa whoa whoa whoa hey hey easy easy, egghead. Put that down. Put that down. Come on.

Din Djarin: Easy.

Mayfeld: Put it down. NOW! (drawing his weapon on the guard)

Din Djarin: Easy! Nobody has to get hurt here, just calm down.

Burg: What is that thing?

Din Djarin: It's a tracking beacon.

Mayfeld: He presses that thing and we're all done. A New Republic attack team will hone in on that signal and blow us all to hell. Put it down!

Xi'an: Are you serious?

Mayfeld: Yes, I'm serious.

Xi'an: You didn't think we needed to know that tiny little detail?

Mayfeld: I didn't think we'd get to this point!

Xi'an: Yet here we are.

Mayfeld: Are you questioning my managerial style, Xi'an?!

Xi'an: (mock saluting) No, sir.

Din Djarin: (addressing the frightened guard) Hey, listen to me. Hey hey hey, listen to me, okay. (holstering his blaster) Look. (addressing Mayfeld) Hey, put it down.

Mayfeld: Are you crazy?

Din Djarin: Put it down. (to the guard) What's your name?

Guard: It...'s...Davan.

Din Djarin: Davan. We're not here for you. We're here for a prisoner. If you let us go about our job you can walk away with your life.

Mayfeld: No he won't.

[ Mayfeld targets Davin again, the Mandalorian draws his blaster on Mayfeld and Mayfeld trains his second blaster on the Mandalorian. ]

Din Djarin: You realize what you're gonna bring down on us.

Mayfeld: You think I care about that?

Din Djarin: We're not killing anybody, you understand?

Mayfeld: Get that blaster out of my face, Mando.

Din Djarin: I can't do that.

Mayfeld: Get that blaster outta my face, Mando!

[ Mayfeld's third blaster on the droid arm engages to target the Mandalorian, as well Burg draws his weapon on him. The Mandalorian aims his vambrace weapon at Burg. ]

Din Djarin: Don't.

[ Suddenly, Davin is cut down by Xi'an's throwing knife. ]

Xi'an: Would you both just shut up.

Mayfeld: Crazy Twi'. I had it under control.

Xi'an: Yeah... Looked like it.

[ The tracking beacon starts blinking and softly beeping. ]

Mayfeld: Was that thing blinking before? Was it?

Zero: Zero to Mayfeld. Zero to Mayfeld.

Mayfeld: What?

Zero: I detected a New Republic distress signal homing in on your location. You have approximately 20 minutes.

Xi'an: (shrugs) We only need five.

Mayfeld: Let's go, let's go, move, move, move, move!

[ They leave the control room. In the corridors, Burg grabs and smashes a security droid, then throws it at another one, taking both down. At cell 221 Mayfeld plugs into the door mechanism. ]

Mayfeld: Zee, open it up.

Zero: You have 15 minutes remaining.

Mayfeld: (over comms) Open it up!

[ The cell door opens, revealing a man familiar to the Mandalorian. ]

Din Djarin: Qin...

Qin: Funny. The man who left me behind is now my saviour. (walking out) Mando.

[ Suddenly Burg punches Mando in the gut, catching him off guard, throwing him into the cell which is locked before he can get up. He fires his blaster, but the charge just ricochets around the cell. Qin and Xi'an embrace fiercely. ]

Xi'an: Brother!

Qin: Sister!

Mayfeld: Attack's on the way. He's already dead meat! Let's go!

Qin: Come on, it's better this way.

Xi'an: (at the Mandalorian in the cell) You deserve this!

Mayfeld: Let's go!

[ Cut to the cockpit where Zero is inspecting the garbled hologram message from Greef Karga, with which he is successful. ]

Greef Karga: (hologram) I received your transmission. Upon your return deliver the quarry directly to the client.

Zero: Interesting.

Mayfeld: (on comms) Zero, we got Qin.

Zero: I found some information on the Mandalorian from the Bounty Hunters' Guild.

Mayfeld: Yeah yeah, do whatever. Just get us off this ship.

Zero: You have 10 minutes remaining.

[ Cut to the Mandalorian in the cell. He grapples a passing security droid and reels him in against the cell door and manages to disable it, using it's arm to unlock his cell. In the cockpit of the Razor Crest, Zero sees the Mandalorian's bio tracker moving into the control room. ]

Zero: Zero to Mayfeld.

Mayfeld: Wait wait wait wait wait.

Zero: Zero to Mayfeld.

Mayfeld: Yeah.

Zero: You have a potential problem. He has escaped.

[ Xi'an cries out in frustration. ]

Xi'an: I told you we should have ended him!

Mayfeld: I know, I know, I know!

Xi'an: This is your fault!

[ They start screaming at each other when suddenly the lights go out. The red emergency lighting comes on, and the security doors around them lock down, except one. ]

Burg: Go go go go go go go!

[ They start running. One of the security doors locks down separating the team into Qin and Mayfeld on one side and Xi'an and Burg on the other. ]

Zero: (looking at an increasingly scrambled screen) Zero to Mayfeld. Mayfeld, do you copy? It seems comms are no longer functioning therefore you cannot hear me. You are on your own.

[ Baby noises are heard. Zero turns to see the Child entering the cockpit. ]

Zero: Curious.

[ Cut to the separated team. ]

Qin: It's all right! You and the Devaronian, split up. Find Mando and kill him! Then find a way back to the ship!

Xi'an: Zero! We need a path. (crackling but no response) ZERO! (frustrated scream)

[ In the cockpit, Zero turns to grab his rifle. When he turns back around, the Child is gone. ]

[ Cut to Mayfeld and Qin. ]

Qin: Do you have a name?

Mayfeld: Mayfeld.

Qin: (laughs) Well, Mr. Mayfeld, you're gonna get me the hell off this ship.

Mayfeld: Hey, wait. What about your sister?

Qin: What about her?

[ Qin grabs one of Mayfeld's blasters and leaves. ]

Mayfeld: (to himself) Nice family.

[ Burg and Xi'an are seen splitting up. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian in the control room, grabbing the tracking beacon. ]

[ Cut to Qin and Mayfeld coming across the droids destroyed earlier by the Mandalorian. ]

Qin: Mando always did hate droids.

Mayfeld: Zee... Zee...

Qin: Hey, hey. Whatever Ran promised, I'll see to it you get triple share. Just get him.

Mayfeld: Better be good for it.

[ They split up. ]

[ Cut to Xi'an. ]

Xi'an: (sing-songy) Mando...

[ Cut to Burg trying the comms, throwing the transmitter away in frustration. ]

[ Cut to Zero searching the Child in the ship. ]

[ Cut back to Burg entering the control room, a security door locking down behind him. ]

Burg: Where are you, little mouse?

[ He is caught by the Mandalorian's grappling cable from above, but he is able to pull the Mandalorian down from his hiding place. Burg proceeds to thrash the Mandalorian. Brief glimpse of Xi'an hearing the fighting noise and running up. ]

Burg: Let's see your face, Mandalorian.

[ He attempts to pull the helmet off, but gets thrown, and the Mandalorian locks down the security door on him - which he holds up with brutal strength, until the Mandalorian snaps shut a second security door. ]

[ Cut to a frustrated Xi'an. ]

Xi'an: Zero...where is he?

[ Cut to Zero still looking for the Child in the ship. ]

[ Cut to Mayfeld taking out three security patrol droids. ]

[ Cut to Xi'an, the Mandalorian appearing in the corridor behind her. One of her throwing knifes knocks the blaster out of his hand, others glance off his beskar, one buries between breastplate and pauldron. They enter close quarter combat and Xi'an ends up with a knife at her throat. ]

[ Cut to Mayfeld. Suddenly a locked down security raises in front of him. A maintenance droid runs past, startling him. ]

Mayfeld: What the f--

[ With every flashing light, the Mandalorian is seen coming closer behind him. Mayfeld turns around, but the Mandalorian has already passed him and is now behind him again. ]

Mayfeld: (turning) NO!

[ Cut to Zero still looking for the Child. He hears a door swish. ]

[ Cut to Qin arriving at the ladder leading up into the ship. ]

Din Djarin: Qin!

Qin: You killed the others.

Din Djarin: They got what they deserved.

[ They point their blasters at each other. ]

Qin: You kill me, you don't get your money. Whatever Ran promised, I make sure you get it, and more. Come on, Mando. Be reasonable, huh? (throwing his weapon down) You were hired to do a job, right? So do it. Isn't that your code? Aren't you a man of honour?

[ Cut to Zero still looking for the Child. He opens the safe room, revealing the Child. It raises its hand, and Zero raises his rifle. Suddenly a shot, Zero sparks out and falls over, revealing the Mandalorian behind him with a blaster. ]

[ Cut to the Razor Crest undocking from the prison ship, entering hyperspace and dropping out to approach Ran's space station. The Razor Crest lands in the hangar. The opening ramp reveals the Mandalorian and Qin. Qin and Ran embrace. ]

Ran: Where are the others?

Din Djarin: No questions asked. That's the policy, right?

Ran: Yeah. That is the policy.

Din Djarin: I did the job.

Ran: Yeah you did.

[ Ran tosses the Mandalorian a coin purse. ]

Din Djarin: Just like the good old days.

Ran: Yeah, just like the good old days.

[ The Mandalorian reenters his ship and the Razor Crest takes off. ]

Ran: (pressing a comms button) Kill him.

[ Ran and Qin laugh as a gunship rises to the flight deck. Then Qin notices a beeping and discovers a tracker on him. ]

Qin: What's this?

Ran: (taking the tracker) That bastard.

[ They look around to see three ships drop out of hyperspace. ]

[ Cut to the fighters. ]

Trapper Wolf: Yeah I got a clear signal on the tracking beacon.

Jib Dodger: Copy that

[ Cut to the hangar, where Ran gives the tracker back to Qin and runs off. ]

Qin: Are those X-wings?

[ Cut to the fighters. ]

Trapper Wolf: Yep, that's definitely a tracking beacon.

Jib Dodger: Looks like they're launching a gunship.

Sash Ketter: Copy. Going in.

[ The fighters open fire. The Razor Crest is seen flying away (as the fighters destroy the space station in the background) then jumping into hyperspace. The Mandalorian unscrews the knob from the lever. ]

Din Djarin: I told you that was a bad idea.

[ He gives the knob to the Child to play with. ]

[ Cut to Xi'an, Burg, and Mayfeld in a cell on board the prison ship. ]

End.



Ep 7 - The Reckoning
[ The Razor Crest is seen travelling in space. On board, the Child is sleeping. A hologram message pops up. ]

Greef Karga: My friend, if you are receiving this transmission that means you are alive. You might be surprised to hear this but I am alive too. I guess we can call it even. A lot has happened since we last saw each other. The man who hired you is still here, and his ranks of ex-Imperial guards have grown. They have imposed despotic rule over my city, which has impeded the livelihood of the Guild. We consider him an enemy but we cannot get close enough to take him out. If you would consider one last commission I will very much make it worth your while. You have been successful so far in staving off their hunters. But they will not stop until they have their prize. So here is my proposition: Return to Nevarro, bring the Child as bait. I will arrange an exchange and provide loyal Guild members as protection. Once we get near the client, you kill him, and we both get what we want. If you succeed, you keep the Child and I will have your name cleared with the Guild, for a man of honour should not be forced to live in exile. I await your arrival with optimism.

[ The Mandalorian looks back at the sleeping Child, then sets a course, and the Razor Crest jumps into hyperspace. ]

Title Screen

[ Cut to the Razor Crest flying over Sorgan, then landing in a clearing. ]

[ Cut to Cara Dune in a laser tethered boxing match against a male Zabrak in the common house, which she wins. ]

Cara Dune: Pay up, mudscuffers! Come on. (as patrons are paying her) That's mine, thank you. Thank you.

[ The Mandalorian walks in. ]

Din Djarin: Looking for some work?

[ Cut to them sitting at a table, spotchka being poured. ]

Din Djarin: It seems like a straightforward operation. They're providing the plan and firepower, I'm the snare.

Cara Dune: With the kid?

Din Djarin: That's why I'm coming to you.

Cara Dune: I don't know. I've been advised to lay low. If anybody runs my chain code I'll rot in a cell for the rest of my life.

Din Djarin: I thought you were a veteran.

[ The Zabrak boxer comes by and drops some coins on the table. ]

Cara Dune: (sweetly) Come back soon. (to the Mandalorian) I've been a lot things since, most of them carry a life sentence. If I so much as book passage on a ship registered to the New Republic I'm--

Din Djarin: I have a ship. I can bring you there and back with a handsome reward. You can live free of worry.

Cara Dune: I'm already free of worry. And I'm not in the mood to play soldier anymore. Especially fighting some local warlord.

Din Djarin: He's not a local warlord. He's Imperial.

Cara Dune: I'm in.

[ Cut to the Razor Crest travelling through space, then into the cockpit. ]

Cara Dune: Does your contact need to vet me?

Din Djarin: Doesn't know you're coming.

Cara Dune: Really? That can be a problem.

Din Djarin: It won't. But if it is, that's his problem.

[ He leaves the cockpit, and she follows. He opens the weapons vault down below. ]

Cara Dune: He all right up there alone?

Din Djarin: Yeah.

[ Cara ogles the weapons. ]

Din Djarin: Pick one.

Cara Dune: (inspecting the weapons) You trust the contact?

Din Djarin: Not particularly. He and I had a run-in last time I was there on some Guild business.

Cara Dune: So then why are we going?

Din Djarin: I don't have a choice. You saw what happened on Sorgan. They'll keep sending hunters. The kid'll never be safe until the Imp is dead.

Cara Dune: And you're okay with bringing him back there?

Din Djarin: Not really. That's why I'm bringing you.

[ Suddenly the ship shakes and banks. The Mandalorian climbs up into the cockpit to find the Child playing with the ship's controls. He grabs the Child, hands it to Cara and stabilises the ship. ]

Cara Dune: We're gonna need someone to watch that thing.

Din Djarin: Yeah...

Cara Dune: You got anyone you can trust?

[ Cut to the Razor Crest approaching Arvala-7 and landing near Kuiil's moisture farm. ]

Kuiil: Whoa! Easy, Whoa!

[ The Mandalorian and Cara enter Kuiil's residence with the Child in a floating crib. ]

Kuiil: It hasn't grown much.

Din Djarin: I think it might be a strand-cast.

Kuiil: I don't think it was engineered. I've worked in the gene farms. This one looks evolved. Too ugly. This one on the other hand (pointing at Cara) looks like she was farmed in the Cytocaves of Nora.

Din Djarin: This is Cara Dune. She was a shock-trooper.

Kuiil: You were a dropper?

Cara Dune: Did you serve?

Kuiil: On the other side, I'm afraid. But I'm proud to say that I paid out my clan's debt and now I serve no one but myself.

[ An IG unit enters the building with a tray. Both, the Mandalorian and Cara Dune jump up and draw their blasters on the droid. ]

IG-11: Would anyone care for some tea?

Kuiil: Please lower your blasters. He will not harm you.

Din Djarin: That thing is programmed to kill the baby.

Kuiil: Not anymore.

[ IG-11 places the tray on the table. Flashbacks to the aftermath of the Mandalorian's fight at the encampment where the Child had been held. ]

Kuiil: (flashback to bodies in the encampment, Kuiil atop a blurrg on the hillside above) It was left behind in the wake of your destruction. (Kuiil entering the room where IG-11 fell) I found it, laying where it fell, (cradling IG-11) devoid of all life. (transporting IG-11 on the blurrg) I recovered the flotsam and staked it as my own in accordance with the Charter of the New Republic. (working on the droid) Little remained of its neural harness. Reconstruction was quite difficult, but not impossible. (training the droid) It had to learn everything from scratch. This is something that cannot be taught with the twist of a spanner. It requires patience, repetition. I spent day after day reinforcing its development with patience and affirmation. It developed a personality as its experiences grew.

Din Djarin: Is it still a hunter?

Kuiil: No. But it will protect.

IG-11: (lifting a cup) Tea?

[ Cut to Kuiil tending to a blurrg. The Mandalorian approaches. ]

Din Djarin: I've run into some problems.

Kuiil: I figured as much. Why else would you return?

Din Djarin: I wanna hire your services.

Kuiil: I'm retired from service.

Din Djarin: I can pay you handsomely, Ugnaught.

Kuiil: I have a name. It is Kuiil.

Din Djarin: I need someone to protect the little one, Kuiil.

Kuiil: I'm not suited for such work. I can reprogram IG-11 for nursing and protocol.

Din Djarin: No! I don't want that droid anywhere near him.

Kuiil: Why are you so distrustful of droids?

Din Djarin: It tried to kill him.

Kuiil: It was programmed to do so. Droids are not good or bad. They are neutral reflections of those who imprint them.

Din Djarin: I've seen otherwise.

Kuiil: Do you trust me?

Din Djarin: From what I can tell, yes.

Kuiil: Then you will trust my work. IG-11 will join me. And we do it not for payment, but to protect the Child from Imperial slavery. None will be free until the old ways are gone. Forever.

Din Djarin: Okay.

Kuiil: And the blurrgs will join me as well.

Din Djarin: The blurrgs?

Kuiil: I have spoken.

[ Cut to the Razor Crest flying away from Arvala-7, then to inside the ship and the blurrg in the cargo hold. The Mandalorian and Cara are arm wrestling. ]

Cara Dune: I got you, Mando.

Din Djarin: Care to double the bet?

[ The Child looks on, worried. Then it raises its hand, and suddenly Cara is gasping for air. The Mandalorian notices the Child's face. ]

Din Djarin: (grabbing the Child) No! No no, stop! We're friends, we're friends! Cara is my friend!

Cara Dune: That is not okay!

Kuiil: Very curious.

Cara Dune: Curious?! It almost killed me!

Kuiil: The story you told me of the mudhorn now makes more sense.

Din Djarin: What is it?

Kuiil: What it is, I don't know. But what it does, this, this I've heard rumours of.

Cara Dune: What? When you worked for the Empire?

Kuiil: When I was sold to the Empire, in indentured servitude.

Cara Dune: Yet somehow, you walk free.

Kuiil: I bought my freedom through the skill of my hands and the labour of three of your human lifetimes. (IG-11 approaches in the background) Do not cast doubt upon that of what I am nor whom I shall serve.

[ Cara and IG-11 are in a staring match. ]

Din Djarin: Tell you what. I can really use your craftwork right now. Can you pad this container so the Child can sleep better?

Kuiil: I shall fabricate a better one. Then perhaps this dropper can see how one can win their freedom with the skill of one's hands.

[ Cut to Kuiil working on a new crib, the Child beside him, then into the cockpit to Cara and the Mandalorian. ]

Cara Dune: So we're going to Nevarro.

Din Djarin: Have you ever been?

Cara Dune: No. We lost all of our forces there. The city's dug in pretty deep. There's no cover when you drop in. Stayed in Empire control till the end of the war.

Din Djarin: The warlord we're taking out was an Imperial officer.

Cara Dune: What station?

Din Djarin: Hard to tell. No insignia anymore. I took out the safehouse when I snatched the kid. More Imps have reinforced since.

Cara Dune: There is something more going on.

Din Djarin: Maybe. We'll find out more when we land.

[ IG-11 enters the cockpit. ]

IG-11: I have prepared second meal. Would you care to be served here or below?

Din Djarin: I'm not hungry.

[ IG-11 leaves. ]

Din Djarin: Under no circumstances does that thing leave the ship.

Cara Dune: You got a real thing for droids, don't you.

Din Djarin: I got a real thing for that droid.

Cara Dune: The Ugnaught said he rewired it.

Din Djarin: That droid was designed to kill things. I don't care how much wiring he replaced, it goes against its nature.

Cara Dune: Well, shouldn't be a long job anyway. You take out the head Imp, the rest will run like rats.

[ Cara leaves the cockpit. ]

[ Cut to the Razor Crest approaching Nevarro. ]

[ Cut to Greef Karga and three associates awaiting the Razor Crest's arrival. The Mandalorian, Cara, and Kuiil exit mounted on blurrgs. ]

Greef Karga: Sorry for the remote rendezvous, Mando. But things have gotten complicated since you were last here. It appears that introductions are in order. It seems we've both provided a security detail. I recommend the shock-trooper guards the ship, these lava fields are lousy with Jawas.

Din Djarin: She's coming with me.

Greef Karga: But the town is now run by ex-Empire. If a rebel dropper is with us, they'll all get their hackles up.

Din Djarin: She's coming.

Greef Karga: Fine. Fine. At least cover your tattoo. No need to flaunt it. Now, where is the little one?

[ The Mandalorian has the floating crib move forward and open up so Greef Karga can see the Child. ]

Greef Karga: So... this little bogwing is what all the fuss was about. (taking the Child out of the crib) What a precious little creature. I can see why you didn't wanna harm a hair on its wrinkled little head. (placing the Child back in the crib) Well, I'm glad this matter will be put to rest once and for all.

[ The Mandalorian recalls the crib. ]

Greef Karga: The sun drops fast on Nevarro. We can walk for a spell and camp out on the river bank, then make our way into town at first light.

[ Cut to the group travelling across lava fields, then to a camp around a fire with meat on a spit. One of the bounty hunters scoops up some lava for the fire. Kuiil feeds the Child while the members of the groups eye each other suspiciously. ]

Greef Karga: I guess the little bugger's a carnivore. Never seen anything like it. They were ready to pay a king's ransom for that thing. Must be for some kind of highfalutin menagerie.

Din Djarin: Let's go over the plan again.

Greef Karga: We both enter the common house. We show the client the bait. We join him at the table, and you kill him.

Din Djarin: Tell me about his reinforcements.

Greef Karga: They're all ex-Empire. As soon as they lose their paycheck, psh... they'll all scatter.

Din Djarin: And what if they don't?

Greef Karga: They will.

Din Djarin: That's not good enough.

Greef Karga: If, for argument's sake, a few of them don't realise that I'm their best path to alternative employment, and they elect to react impulsively, then these three fine Guild hunters along with that battle hardened shock-trooper will cut down anyone who bucks.

Din Djarin: How many will there be?

Greef Karga: No more than four. (getting up) He travels with, at most, a fire team. Trust me, nothing could go wrong.

[ Suddenly a winged creature swoops in and grabs the meat from Greef's hands. Everybody starts shooting at a pack of dragons, the Mandalorian closes the crib. One of the dragons grabs a blurrg. ]

Kuiil: No! Let go of her! Drop her now!

[ Brief quiet, then one of the bounty hunters is grabbed. Another dragon grabs a second blurrg. ]

Kuiil: Drop her!

[ Both, dragon and blurrg are killed. Another dragon attacks the Mandalorian, who fights it off with fire. The dragons disappear. Greef Karga lies injured. ]

Kuiil: He's hurt badly.

Greef Karga: I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. Ow!

Cara Dune: Hold still. They got you good.

Din Djarin: How bad?

Cara Dune: Bad. The poison is spreading fast.

Greef Karga: So this...this is how it happens.

Cara Dune: Don't be so dramatic. I need another medpack. Got any other medpacks? Anyone?

[ The Child is seen walking over. ]

Greef Karga: I'm guessing that's a "no".

Cara Dune: (scanning the arm) It's still spreading. This isn't working.

[ The Child is beside Greef Karga now. ]

Cara Dune: Get this thing outta here.

Kuiil: Wait.

[ The Child places its hand on Greef Karga's wound. ]

Greef Karga: He's trying to eat me.

[ His face relaxes, and everyone watches as the wound closes, and the Child sits back, spent. Everyone is in awe as the wound completely heals. ]

[ Cut to daytime and the group walking again. ]

Cara Dune: You think they're having second thoughts?

Din Djarin: Could be. I need your eyes.

Cara Dune: I'm watching.

[ Cut to the group halting a short distance from town. ]

Greef Karga: I guess this is it.

[ The remaining bounty hunters close in behind the Mandalorian and Cara, blasters drawn. Suddenly Greef spins, drawing two blasters, and shooting both hunters, then raising his blaster in capitulation. Both, the Mandalorian and Cara keep their blaster trained on him though. ]

Greef Karga: There's something you should know. The plan was to kill you and take the kid. But after what happened last night I couldn't go through with it. Go on, you can gun me down here and now, and it wouldn't violate the Code. But if you do, this child will never be safe.

Cara Dune: We'll take our chances.

Greef Karga: The Imperial client is obsessed with obtaining this asset. You tried to run, but where did it get you?

Cara Dune: This is ridiculous.

Kuiil: Perhaps you should let him speak.

Greef Karga: Listen. We both need the client to be eliminated. Let me take the Child to him, and then you two--

Din Djarin: No.

Cara Dune: Let's just kill him and get outta here.

Din Djarin: He's right.

Cara Dune: What are you doing?

Din Djarin: As long as the Imp lives he'll send hunters after the Child.

Cara Dune: It's a trap.

Din Djarin: Bring me.

Greef Karga: Bring you?

Din Djarin: Tell him you captured me. Get me close to him, and I'll kill him.

Greef Karga: That's a good idea. Gimme your blaster.

Cara Dune: This is insane!

Din Djarin: It's the only way.

Cara Dune: Well, I'm coming with you.

Greef Karga: No no no. That would make them suspicious.

Cara Dune: I don't care. I'm coming.

Din Djarin: Tell'em she caught me.

Greef Karga: Fine. Then she can bring the Child.

Din Djarin: No. The kid goes back in the ship.

Greef Karga: But without the Child none of this works.

Din Djarin: I have a plan. Kuiil, ride back to the Razor Crest with the Child and seal yourself in. When you're inside, engage ground security protocols, and nothing on this planet will breach those doors.

Kuiil: Here's a comlink. I will keep the Child safe. (to Cara) Don't forget to cover your stripes.

Din Djarin: Let's go.

[ The Mandalorian gives Greef Karga his handcuffs, and Greef places them on the Mandalorian, Cara covers her tattoo, and Kuiil takes the Child. Kuiil and the other three leave in opposite directions. ]

[ Cut to the Mandalorian, Greef Karga and Cara Dune arriving at the gate of the city where Stormtroopers stand guard. ]

Stormtrooper: Chain code.

Greef Karga: I have a gift for the boss.

Stormtrooper: Chain code!

[ Greef Karga produces his ID card. The Stormtrooper scans it. ]

Stormtrooper: I give you 20 credits for the helmet.

Greef Karga: Not a chance. That's going on my wall.

Din Djarin: (softly) On your wall...?

GreefKarga: Go with it.

Stormtrooper: Go ahead.

[ They move into town, seeing a lot of Stormtroopers. ]

Cara Dune: You said four. There are more than four troopers.

Greef Karga: Four guarding the client. Many more here in town. Things got really heated once Mando crashed the safehouse.

Cara Dune: Slip him his blaster.

Greef Karga: Not yet.

[ Cut to Kuiil riding fast across the lava fields, the Child in his arms. ]

[ Cut to Greef Karga, Cara Dune and the Mandalorian arriving at the common house. ]

Greef Karga: Here we are. (entering) You see...four.

[ They approach the client. ]

Greef Karga: Look what I brought you. As promised.

Client: (caressing the Mandalorian's beskar armour) What exquisit craftmanship. It is amazing how beautiful beskar can be when forged by its ancestral artisans. Can I offer you a libation to celebrate the closing of our shared narrative?

Greef Karga: I would be obliged.

Client: Please sit. (as Greef shoves Mando into the booth, and more Stormtroopers enter) It is a shame that your people suffered so. Just as in this situation, it was all avoidable. Why did Mandalore resist our expansion? The Empire improves every system it touches. Judge by any metric. Safety. Prosperity. Trade. Opportunity. Peace. Compare Imperial rule to what is happening now. Look outside. Is the world more peaceful since the revolution? I see nothing but death and chaos. I would like to see the baby.

Greef Karga: Uh...it is asleep.

Client: We all will be quiet. Open the pram.

[ A Stormtrooper comes over and whispers something to the client. ]

Client: (getting up) Don't think me to be rude. I must take this call.

[ The Mandalorian loosens the cuffs under the table as the client walks away to a portable comms pad. ]

Din Djarin: (whispering) Gimme the blaster.

Greef Karga: (whispering, passing the blaster) You get one shot.

Cara Dune: This is bad. You said four.

Greef Karga: Well...there are more. What can I tell you?

[ The client brings up hologram. ]

Client: Yes, Moff Gideon.

Moff Gideon: Have they brought the Child?

Client: Yes, they have. Currently it is sleeping.

Moff Gideon: You may wanna check again.

[ Moff Gideon gestures, and suddenly the client goes down, fatally hit as blaster shots are fired through the window to pepper the inside of the common house, killing everything in their path. Once the shooting stops, Cara and the Mandalorian move out of cover to both sides of the window. They see an Imperial firing squad outside with another transport full of Stormtroopers incoming. ]

Cara Dune: Four Stormtroopers?

[ Even more Stormtroopers are flooding in from the adjacent streets, surrounding the common house. ]

Cara Dune: This is bad.

Din Djarin: (into comms) Kuiil, are you back to the ship yet?

[ Cut to Kuiil riding. ]

Din Djarin: (over comms) Are you there? ( Stormtroopers listening in) Do you copy?

Kuiil: Yes!

Din Djarin: Are you back to the ship yet?

Kuiil: Not yet.

Din Djarin: Get back to the ship and bail! Get the kid out of here. We're pinned down!

[ Kuiil pushes the blurrg harder. -- Two Stormtroopers take up pursuit. -- Back in town, a TIE fighter arrives. -- Kuiil rides harder, the ship in sight. -- The man existing the TIE fighter moves to stand in front of the common house. ]

Moff Gideon: You have something I want.

Cara Dune: Who is this guy?

Moff Gideon: You may think you have some idea of what you are in possession of. But you do not.

Din Djarin: Kuiil, are you back to the ship yet? They're on to us.

[ Cut to Stormtroopers in pursuit, then to Kuiil. ]

Din Djarin: (over coms) Kuiil, come in!

[ Cut to town. ]

Moff Gideon: In a few moments, it will be mine.

[ Kuiil riding hard, the ship not far away. The Stormtroopers are closing in. ]

Din Djarin: Kuiil, do you copy?! Kuiil...

[ The ship's ramp is opening as Kuiil approaches. ]

Moff Gideon: It means more to me than you will ever know.

Din Djarin: Kuiil... Are you there?!

[ Cut to the Child lying on the ground. ]

Din Djarin: (over comms) Come in, Kuiil! Kuiil, come in!

[ A Stormtrooper approaches on his bike and scoops up the Child. ]

Din Djarin: (over comms during a pan from the comms link on the ground...) Kuiil! Are you there?! Do you copy?! (...to Kuiil lying dead on the ground and the Stormtroopers speeding away) Kuiil! Kuill!!

End.



Ep 8 - Redemption

[ Two Stormtroopers are seen speeding across the lava fields on their speeder bikes. One of them is carrying a bag with the Child in it. They stop on a ridge outside of town. ]

Trooper 1: Speeder bikes have arrived at the checkpoint with the asset. Awaiting confirmation. (punching the squealing Child) Knock it off! Waiting for confirmation to continue into town.

Operator: (over comms) That's a go to proceed, but I advise you to double-check. The Moff just touched down and already took out a squad of local troopers.

Trooper 1: Standing by.

Trooper 2: Did he just say that Gideon killed his own men?

Trooper 1: Oh, who knows? These guys like to lay down the law when they first arrive into town, y'know. You know how it is. (punching the Child again as it cries) I said, shut up. Yeesh.

Trooper 2: What is that thing, anyway?

Trooper 1: Uh, I don't know. Maybe Moff wants to eat it. I don't ask questions.

Trooper 2: Can I see it?

Trooper 1: Did you not just hear that Moff Gideon killed a dozen of his own troopers to make a point?

Trooper 2: Okay.

Trooper 1: I get that point. Do you get the point?

Trooper 2: Yes.

Trooper 1: Okay.

[ They sit and wait, bored. Trooper 2 starts shooting at some garbage, missing. Trooper 1 shakes his head, starts shooting too. Both keep missing. ]

Trooper 2: Should we offer that thing some water?

Trooper 1: You just wanna look at it.

Trooper 2: So what? You got to see it!

Trooper 1: Barely. I mean, I grabbed it up off the ground and I stuffed it in the sack.

Trooper 2: It's more than I got to see it.

Trooper 1: Look, I'm not taking it out of this bag until I deliver it to the Moff.

Trooper 2: Fine.

Trooper 1: Okay. Stop asking.

[ Trooper 1 gets off his bike. ]

Trooper 1: Let me check on this thing. This is crazy. (into comlink) Any update yet?

Operator: (over comms) That's a negative. Still waiting on confirmation. He just killed and officer for interrupting him, so this might take a while.

Trooper 1: (sighs) Thank you. Standing by still. Unbelievable.

Trooper 2: Hey, how long has it been since that thing moved?

Trooper 1: I don't know, like a minute or two. Don't worry.

Trooper 2: (getting off his bike) Uh, it's been way longer than a minute.

Trooper 1: Oh my God.

Trooper 2: Shouldn't we check and see if it's still alive? You hit it pretty hard.

Trooper 1: You just wanna see it.

Trooper 2: Well, we should check and see if it's hurt. The last thing that you want is to give Gideon a bag and have him open it up and find whatever is dead...

Trooper 1: Okay. Okay, look. (opens the bag) Here you go. See? Take a peek. Everything's fine.

Trooper 2: (looking and poking at the Child) What is that?

Trooper 1: I don't know. It's a pet or something.

Trooper 2: A pet? I thought you-- (the Child bites his finger) OW! (yelps, shaking his hand, then turning back and punching the bag hard)

Trooper 1: Serves you right.

[ A droid approaches. ]

Droid: Stop that.

[ The troopers draw their blasters. ]

Trooper 1: Identify yourself!

Droid: I am IG-11. I am this child's nurse droid and require that you remand him to me immediately.

Trooper 2: (chuckles) A nurse droid? I thought it was a hunter. Aren't IGs usually hunters?

Trooper 1: Yeah, well, evidently this one's a nurse.

[ IG-11 approaches. ]

Trooper 2: I'm sorry, nurse, but you're gonna have to get out of here. (giving a warning shot and stepping closer)

IG-11: Are you refusing my request?

Trooper 1: No. I'm telling you to get out of here.

[ IG-11 grabs the Trooper's arm and twists it until it snaps, then slams him down. Then he grabs the other Trooper's head and smashes him down on his bike repeatedly. Then he gets on the bike and powers it up. ]

IG-11: (to the squealing Child) That was unpleasant. I'm sorry you had to see that.

[ They speed off. ]

Title Screen

[ Cut to town where Stormtroopers, Death Troopers and Moff Gideon are surrounding and watching the shot up common house, then cut to inside the common house. ]

Cara Dune: Is there another way out?

Greed Karga: No, that's it.

Din Djarin: What about the sewers?

Greef Karga: Sewers?

Din Djarin: The Mandalorians have a covert down in the sewers. If we can get down there, they can help us escape.

Cara Dune: Yeah, sewers are good!

Din Djarin: Checking for access points.

Cara Dune: What the hell are they waiting for?

[ Stormtroopers unpack and bring forward weapons parts. ]

Cara Dune: Hold up.

[ The troopers are setting up a cannon. ]

Cara Dune: They're setting up an E-Web.

Greef Karga: It's over.

[ The Mandalorian's visor reveals a sewer access point behind a bench. ']]

Din Djarin: I found the sewer vent.

Cara Dune: Let's get the hell outta here.

[ They run to the back of the common house and pull the bench off the wall, while the troopers outside are setting up the cannon. They try to open the sewer grate; the troopers are powering up the weapon. ]

Din Djarin: It's assembled.

Greef Karga: How long until that thing's cleared?

Cara Dune: Blow it.

Din Djarin: I'm out of charges.

Cara Dune: (grabbing her blaster rifle) Get out of the way!

[ She tries to shoot the vent grate off while the enemy outside watches and listens. She tries to kick the vent in, but it doesn't budge. ]

Moff Gideon: Your astute panic suggests that you understand your situation. I would prefer to avoid any further violence, and encourage a moment of consideration. Members of my escort have completed assembly of an E-Web heavy repeating blaster. If you are unfamiliar with this weapon, I am sure that Republican Shock Trooper Carasynthia Dune of Alderaan will advise you that she has witnessed many of her ranks vaporize mid-descent facing the predecessor of this particular model. Or perhaps the decommissioned Mandalorian hunter, Din Djarin, has heard the songs of the Siege of Mandalore, when gunships outfitted with similar ordnance laid waste to fields of Mandalorian recruits in The Night of a Thousand Tears. I advise disgraced Magistrate Greef Karga to search the wisdom of his years and urge you to lay down your arms and come outside. The structure you are trapped in will be razed in short order and your storied lives will come to an unceremonious end. ]

Greef Karga: What do you propose?

Moff Gideon: Reasonable negotiation.

Greef Karga: What assurance do you offer?

Moff Gideon: If you're asking if you can trust me...you cannot. Just as you betrayed our business arrangement, I would gladly break any promise and watch you die at my hand. The assurance I give is this: I will act in my own self-interest, which at this time involves your cooperation and benefit. I will give you until nightfall, and then I will have the E-Web cannon open fire.

[ Gideon turns and walks away. ]

Greef Karga: I say we hear him out.

Cara Dune: The minute we open that door, we're dead.

Greef Karga: We're dead if we don't. At least out there we've got a shot.

Cara Dune: (as she is collecting weapons and ammo) That's easy for you to say. I'm a Rebel Shock Trooper. They'll upload me to a Mind Flayer.

Greef Karga: Those aren't real. That was just wartime propaganda.

Cara Dune: Well, I don't care to find out. I'm shooting my way outta here.

Greef Karga: What about you, Mando?

Din Djarin: I know who he is.

[ Both Cara and Greef look at him, shocked and/or surprised. ]

Din Djarin: It's Moff Gideon.

Cara Dune: No. Moff Gideon was executed for war crimes.

Din Djarin: It's him. He knew my name.

Greef Karga: So? What does that prove?

Din Djarin: I haven't heard that name spoken since I was a child.

Greef Karga: On Mandalore?

Din Djarin: I was not born on Mandalore.

Greef Karga: But you're a Mandalorian.

Cara Dune: Mandalorian isn't a race.

Din Djarin: It's a Creed.

[ Flashback to Din Djarin's childhood, where he is seen carried by his father, accompanied by his mother, as they flee from droids shooting everyone in sight. His parents put him in an underground storage and close the hatch. Then an explosion. A droid opens the hatch, but before it can kill him, it gets shot and destroyed. A Mandalorian pulls him out, and he watches a squad of Mandalorians fight the droids. Then the man who saved him, takes him away, leaving the fighting behind. ]

Din Djarin: I was a foundling. They raised me in the Fighting Corps. I was treated as one of their own. When I came of age, I was sworn to the Creed. The only record of my family name was in the registers of Mandalore. Moff Gideon was an ISB Officer during the purge. That's how I know it's him.

Cara Dune: That's how he knows who we all are.

Din Djarin: He says he needs us, which means the Child got away safely. I was worried when the Ugnaught didn't respond, but if they'd captured the kid, we'd already be dead.

Cara Dune: Hail them again.

Din Djarin: (into comlink) Come in, Kuiil. Kuiil! Nothing.

Cara Dune: They might have jammed the link.

[ The group hears the Child squeal over the comms. Cut to IG-11 on the speeder bike with the Child in a bag strapped to his chest. ]

IG-11: Kuiil has been terminated.

[ Cut to the common house. ]

Din Djarin: What did you do?

IG-11: (over comms) I am fulfilling my base function.

Din Djarin: Which is?

[ Cut to IG-11. ]

IG-11: To nurse and protect.

[ They are speeding toward town, approaching a Stormtrooper secured gate. ]

Trooper: What was that? Look alive.

[ The Troopers start shooting at the oncoming speeder, but IG-11 takes them out and continues into town, taking down Troopers along his way. Troopers around the common house start noticing and turn their attention. ]

Cara Dune: Look!

[ IG-11 comes speeding up the road, jumps off the bike to let the bike crash into the Troopers, then proceeds to shoot the Troopers around it. ]

Din Djarin: Cover me!

[ Cara shoots at the Troopers from inside the common house. The Mandalorian and Greef Karga leave the common house, taking out Troopers around them. Then the Mandalorian grabs the E-Web cannon off its base and decimates the Trooper ranks. A Death Trooper blasts the main entry, knocking Cara down, but she can take the intruders out. Moff Gideon shows up again, knocking the Mandalorian in the helmet with a blaster shot. Then he takes out the E-Web power unit, the resulting massive explosion taking the Mandalorian down. IG-11 keeps advancing, and under fire cover by IG-11 and Greef, Cara grabs the Mandalorian to drag him to relative safety back inside the common house. ]

Moff Gideon: Burn them out.

[ In the common house. ]

Cara Dune: Stay with me, buddy. We're gonna get you outta here.

Greef Karga: (to IG-11 and pointing to the sewer crate) This is our only way out. Can you clear it?

[ As Cara lays the Mandalorian down, IG-11 approaches the grate. ]

Cara Dune: Stay with me.

IG-11: (to Greef Karga) If you go near this Child, I will have no choice but to kill you.

Greef Karga: I understand. Can you do anything to move the grate?

IG-11: Yes, of course.

[ IG-11 gets to work on the grate. ]

Greef Karga: Oh, I love IG units.

Din Djarin: I'm not gonna make it. Go.

Cara Dune: Shut up. You just got your bell rung. You'll be fine.

Din Djarin: (weakly) Leave me.

[ Cara pulls her hand from under the Mandalorian's head, fingers full of blood. ]

Cara Dune: (reaching for the Mandalorian's helmet) I'm gonna need to take this thing off.

Din Djarin: (grabbing her hands) No. You leave me. (gasping) You make sure the Child is safe. Here. (pulling off a necklace, giving it to Cara) When you get to the Mandalorian covert, you show them that. You tell them it's from Din Djarin. You tell them the foundling was in my protection, and they'll help you.

Cara Dune: We can make it.

[ Outside, an Incinerator Stormtrooper walks up. ]

Cara Dune: (pushing and pulling at the Mandalorian) Come on! Let's go!

Din Djarin: (weakly) I'm not gonna make it, and you know it.

[ A blast of fire bursts through the window. Cara covers the Mandalorian with her body. IG-11 is still working on the vent grate. ]

Din Djarin: You protect the Child. I can hold them back long enough for you to escape. Let me have a warrior's death.

Cara Dune: (firmly) I won't leave you.

Din Djarin: This is the Way.

[ The Incinerator Stormtrooper blasts fire through the open door, the Child has crept out of the bag and is standing in the middle of the room. The Incinerator Stormtrooper enter the common house. Everyone looks on in horror as the Child is directly in the way of the flamethrower - holding off the flames, then pushing them out, throwing the Trooper out in an explosion, saving them all. The Child falls over, spent. IG-11 kicks in the vent crate. ]

Greef Karga: Come on! It's open, let's go!

Din Djarin: (gasping) Go. Go.

Greef Karga: We have to move. Now!

[ IG-11 grabs the Child. ]

Din Djarin: (rasping) Go.

[ Finally, Cara gets up. IG-11 shoves the Child in the bag into her arms. ]

IG-11: Escape and protect this child. I will stay with the Mandalorian.

Cara Dune: Promise me you'll bring him.

IG-11: You have my word.

[ She and Greef Karga leave with the Child. IG-11 kneels down by the Mandalorian. ]

Din Djarin: DO it.

IG-11: Do what?

Din Djarin: Just get it over with. I'd rather you kill me than some Imp.

IG-11: I told you, I am no longer a hunter. I am a nurse droid.

Din Djarin: IGs are all hunters.

IG-11: Not this one. I was reprogrammed. I need to remove your helmet if I am to save you.

[ IG-11 reaches to grab the helmet, and the Mandalorian raises a blaster in his face. ]

Din Djarin: Try it and I'll kill you. It is...forbidden. No living thing has seen me without my helmet since I...swore the Creed.

IG-11: I am not a living thing. (removing the helmet) This is a bacta spray. (applying the spray) It will heal you in a matter of hours. You have suffered damage to your central processing unit.

Din Djarin: You mean my brain?

IG-11: That was a joke. It is meant to put you at ease.

[ The Mandalorian gives a laboured chuckle. ]

[ Cut to the sewers. Cara and Greef turn as they hear footsteps behind them. It's IG-11 with the Mandalorian, helmet back in place. Cara passes the Child back to IG-11 and takes over helping the Mandalorian. ]

Cara Dune: I got you.

[ They move through the sewers. ]

Greef Karga: Do you know which way to go?

Din Djarin: No. I don't know these tunnels. I've only entered from the bazaar.

Greef Karga: Well, if we get the smell of sulfur and we follow it, it'll lead us up to the plains where the river flows.

Din Djarin: And the Imps will catch us before we make it to the ship. We need the Mandalorians to escort us to safety.

Cara Dune: Ugh, this place is a maze.

Din Djarin: Stop. I can stand.

IG-11: The bacta infusion is working.

Din Djarin: I'll try to find tracks. (after looking around, pointing) We're close. Turn here.

[ They come upon a pile of Mandalorian armour, mostly helmets. Djarin drops to his knee in front of it, taking one of the helmets, as the others look on. Cara steps closer. ]

Cara Dune: We should go.

Din Djarin: You go. Take the ship. I can't leave it this way. (to Greef) Did you know about this? Is this the work of your bounty hunters?

Greef Karga: No. When you left the system and took the prize, the fighting ended and the hunters just melted away. You know how it is. They're mercenaries. They're not zealots.

Din Djarin: (getting up and rounding on Greef) Did you do this? (getting in his face) Did you?!

Greef Karga: No!

Armorer: It was not his fault. We revealed ourselves. We knew what could happen if we left the covert. (taking a piece of armour from the pile and adding it to a floating cart) The Imperials arrived shortly thereafter. This is what resulted.

Din Djarin: Did any survive?

Armorer: I hope so. Some may have escaped off-world.

Din Djarin: Come with us.

Armorer: No. I will not abandon this place until I have salvaged what remains.

[ She leaves, and the others follow her into the forge where she continues to melt down armour pieces. ]

Armorer: Show me the one whose safety deemd such desruction.

Din Djarin: (as IG-11 reveals the Child) This is the one.

Armorer: This is the one you hunted, then saved?

Din Djarin: Yes. The one that saved me as well.

Armorer: From the mudhorn?

Din Djarin: Yes.

Armorer: It looks helpless.

Din Djarin: It's injured, but it is not helpless. Its species can move objects with its mind.

Armorer: I know of such things. The songs of eons past tell of battles between Mandalore the Great and an order of sorcerers called Jedi that fought with such powers.

Din Djarin: It is an enemy?

Armorer: No. Its kind were enemies, but this individual is not.

Din Djarin: What is it?

Armorer: It is a foundling. By Creed, it is in your care.

Din Djarin: You wish me to train this thing?

Armorer: It is too weak. It would die. You have no choice. You must reunite it with its own kind.

Din Djarin: Where?

Armorer: This, you must determine.

Din Djarin: You expect me to search the galaxy for the home of this creature and deliver it to a race of enemy sorcerers?

Armorer: This is the Way.

Cara Dune: Hey. These tunnels will be lousy with Imps in a matter of minutes. We should at least discuss an escape plan.

Armorer: If you follow the descending tunnel it will lead you to the underground river. It flows downstream toward the lava flats.

Greef Karga: I think we should go.

Din Djarin: I'm staying. I need to help her, and I need to heal.

Armorer: You must go. A foundling is in your care. By Creed, until it is of age or reunited with its own kind, you are as its father. This is the Way. You have earned your Signet.

[ The armorer attaches the signet she forged to the Mandalorian's pauldron. ]

Armorer: You are a clan of two.

Din Djarin: Thank you. I will wear this with honour.

[ Explosions startle the group. Stormtroopers are entering the tunnels. ]

Greef Karga: We should go.

Armorer: IG, please guard the outer hallway. A scouting party draws near.

Cara Dune: (being passed the Child) Hang on. I don't do the baby thing.

Armorer: I have one more gift for your journey. Have you trained in the Rising Phoenix?

Din Djarin: When I was a boy, yes.

Armorer: Then this (turning around with a jetpack in her hands) will make you complete.

Din Djarin: Thank you.

Armorer: When you have healed, you will begin your drills. Until you know it, it will not listen to your commands.

Din Djarin: I understand.

[ Blaster firing out in the hallways. Then quiet, and IG-11 returns. ]

IG-11: You are protected.

Armorer: More will come. You must go.

Din Djarin: Come with us.

Armorer: My place is here. Restock your munitions. IG, carry this for Din Djarin until he is well enough to wear it. (passing the jetpack to IG-11) Now, go! Down to the river and across the plains. Be safe on your journey,

Din Djarin: Thank you.

[ They leave, the armorer staying behind. Stormtroopers close in and surround her. ]

Trooper: Hey, Mando! Where are they? (knocking against her helmet with his rifle) I said, where are they?

[ She explodes into action, taking down the Stormtroopers with her forging tools. ]

[ Cut to the others arriving at the underground lava river. ]

Greef Karga: This is the lava river.

Din Djarin: The ferry droid is fried.

Greef Karga: Yeah, but if we push the boat out we can get it to float downstream. Come on.

Din Djarin: Looks old. Will it take the heat?

Greef Karga: You got a better idea?

Din Djarin: Guess not.

[ They push at the boat, but it doesn't budge. ]

Greef Karga: Push!

[ Frustrated, the Mandalorian kicks at the boat. ]

Greef Karga: Come on! What're you doing?

Din Djarin: (grabbing a pole) Let's try this.

Greef Karga: Push!

Cara Dune: (unslinging her rifle) You guys mind getting out of the way?

Greef Karga: Oh!

[ Cara shoots at the cooled lava locking the boat in and it comes loose. ]

Greef Karga: Good job.

IG-11: Watch your feet. It's molten lava.

[ They get into the boat. ]

Cara Dune: No kidding.

[ The ferry droid comes to life and everyone turns to train their blaster on it. It gets up, beeping. ]

Din Djarin: I don't suppose anybody here speaks droid?

IG-11: I believe he is asking where we would like to go.

Greef Karga: Down river. To the lava flat.

[ The droid beeps and starts moving the boat along. Then Greef points to a light at the end of the tunnel. ]

Greef Karga: That's it. We're free!

Din Djarin: (scanning ahead with his visor) No. No, we're not. Stormtroopers. They're flanking the mouth of the tunnel. It looks like an entire platoon. Thye must know we're coming.

Cara Dune: Stop the boat. Hey, droid, I said stop the boat. Hey, I'm talking to you. I said stop!

[ She shoots its head off. ]

Greef Karga: We're still moving.

Cara Dune: Looks like we fight.

Din Djarin: There are too many.

Cara Dune: Well, then what do you suggest? Cuz I can't surrender.

IG-11: They will not be satisfied with anything less than the Child. This is unacceptable. I will eliminate the enemy, and you will escape.

Din Djarin: You don't have that kind of firepower, pal. You wouldn't even get to daylight.

IG-11: That is not my objective.

Cara Dune: We're getting close. Saddle up.

IG-11: I still have the security protocols from my manufacturer. If my designs are compromised, I must self-destruct.

Din Djarin: What are you talking about?

IG-11: I'm not permitted to be captured. I must be destroyed.

Greef Karga: Are we gonna keep talking or we gonna get outta here?

IG-11: (putting down the jetpack) I can no longer carry this for you. Nor can I watch over the child. (passing the Child to the Mandalorian)

Din Djarin: Wait. You can't self-destruct. Your base command is to watch the child. That supersedes your manufacturer's protocol, right? Right?

IG-11: This is correct.

Din Djarin: Good. Now grab a blaster and help us shoot our way out.

IG-11: Victory through combat is impossible. We will be captured. The child will be lost. Sadly, there is no scenario where the child is saved, in which I survive.

Din Djarin: Listen, you're not going anywhere. We need you. Let's just come with a--

IG-11: Please tell me the child will be safe in your care. If you do so, I can default to my secondary command.

Din Djarin: But you'll be destroyed.

IG-11: And you will live, and I will have served my purpose.

Din Djarin: (voice rough with emotion) No. We need you.

IG-11: There isnothing to be sad about. I have never been alive.

Din Djarin: I'm not sad.

IG-11: Yes you are. I'm a nurse droid. I've analyzed your voice. (caressing the Child in farewell)

Greef Karga: IG! (as the droid steps off the boat into the lava stream) What're you doing?!

[ IG-11 marches through the lava stream to the mouth of the tunnel where the Stormtroopers are lying in ambush. ]

IG-11: Manufacturer's protocol dictates I cannot be captured. (breastplate opening to reveal an active grenade) I must be destroyed.

[ IG-11 explodes, taking out all the Stormtroopers. As the boat emerges from the tunnel, a TIE fighter appears. ]

Cara Dune: Moff Gideon!

[ The TIE fighter opens fire on the group, and they shoot back. ]

Greef Karga: He missed!

Din Djarin: He won't next time.

Cara Dune: Our blasters are useless against him.

Greef Karga: Hey, let's make the baby do the magic hand thing. Come on, baby! Do the magic hand thing. (waving at the Child, the Child waves back) I'm out of ideas.

Din Djarin: I'm not.

Cara Dune: Here he comes!

[ Under grunts of pain, the Mandalorian attaches the jetpack and fires it up as the TIE fighter approaches again. He shoots up just before the TIE fighter passes above them, then turns and hooks on to the TIE fighter with his grappling hook. He mounts the fighter, nearly gets bucked and loses a charge, then manages to stick a couple of charges to the TIE fighter before letting go. The charges explode and the TIE fighter crashes. The Mandalorian falls...but manages to re-engage the jetpack to land safely. ]

Greef Karga: That was impressive, Mando. Very impressive. It looks like your Guild rates have just gone up.

Din Djarin: Any more stormtroopers?

Cara Dune: I think we cleaned up the town. I'm thinking of staying aorund just to be sure.

Din Djarin: You're staying here?

Greef Karga: Well, why not? Nevarro is a very fine planet. And now that the scum and villainy have been washed away, it's very respectable again.

Din Djarin: As a bounty hunter hive?

Greef Karga: Some of my favourite people are bounty hunters. And perhaps, this specimen of soldier might consider joining our ranks.

Cara Dune: Yeah... I've got some clerical concerns regarding my chain code.

[ The Child has waddled up to the Mandalorian and grabs onto his leg and coos up at him. ]

Greef Karga: And if you would agree to become my enforcer, clerical concerns would be the least of your worries. (turning to the Mandalorian) But you, my friend, you will be welcome back into the Guild with open arms. So, go off, enjoy yourself. And when you're ready to return, you will have the pick of all quarries.

[ The Mandalorian picks up the Child. ]

Din Djarin: I'm afraid I have more pressing matters at hand.

[ Cara steps forward and rubs the Child's ear. ]

Cara Dune: Take care of this little one.

[ As Cara steps back again, Greef Karga touches the Child's ear gently. ]

Greef Karga: Or maybe...it'll take care of you.

[ The Mandalorian engages the jetpack and takes off with the Child in his arms. Cut to him finishing up a burial mound for Kuiil, then walking away towards his ship. Cut into the cockpit, where he sets the Child down and powers up the ship. On a sound from the Child he turns around. ]

Din Djarin: What do you got there? (taking the pendant the Child was sucking on) I didn't think I'd see this again. Why don't you hang on to that? (giving the pendant back to the Child to suck on)

[ Cut to the ship taking off overhead of Cara and Greef. ]

[ Pan to the crash site of the TIE fighter where Jawas are picking the wreck apart. Suddenly the blade of a laser weapon cuts through the hull from inside, and Moff Gideon steps out wielding the Darksaber. He steps on top of the wreck, scanning the surroundings. ]

End.



Ep 9 - The Marshal
[ We open up to a dark, urban landscape. The Mandalorian, with the Child floating beside him in his pod, slowly emerges from the darkness, slowly walking along the dirt street. The building walls are coated in graffiti, and the entire place looks quite run-down. As they walk throughout the seedy town, the Child takes notice of numerous pairs of red eyes staring at them from the sides of the street, and lightly whimpers in fright. The two approach a door, which a sinister-looking Twilek doorman is guarding. ]

Din Djarin: Im here to see Gor Koresh.

[ The doorman briefly glances at the Child, who coos, before moving aside and allowing the door to open. ]

Twilek Doorman: Enjoy the fights.

[ The Mandalorian and the Child descend some stairs down into a fighting area. Spectators surround an elevated platform, where two Gamorrean warriors are clashing with axes. Various flags with vibrant designs hang above the platform as well. The spectators cheer and shout in alien languages, as the Child looks around curiously. The Mandalorian settles into a seat next to a Gor Koresh, who is shown to be a chubby Abyssin, dressed in very fancy attire. ]

Gor Koresh: You know this is no place for a child.

Din Djarin: Wherever I go, he goes.

Gor Koresh: (chuckles) So Ive heard.

Din Djarin: Ive been quested to bring him to his kind. If I can locate other Mandalorians, they can help guide me. Im told you know where to find them.

Gor Koresh: Its uncouth to talk business immediately. Just enjoy the entertainment.

[ The Child coos in slight distress and surprise at the Gamorreans axes fiercely clanging together, as he observes the intense brawl. The opposing Gamorrean knocks Gor Koreshs Gamorrean to the ground. ]

Gor Koresh: Bah! My Gamorreans not doing well. Kill him! Finish him!

[ The opposing Gamorrean slashes down with his axe, but Koreshs warrior rolls out of the way just in time to dodge. ]

Gor Koresh: Do you gamble, Mando?

Din Djarin: Not when it can be avoided.

Gor Koresh: (chuckles) Well, Ill bet you the information you seek that this Gamorreans going to die within the next minute and a half...and all you have to put up in exchange is your shiny beskar armor.

Din Djarin: Im prepared to pay you for the information. Im not leaving my fate up to chance.

Gor Koresh: Nor am I.

[ He pulls a blaster out of his coat and shoots the opposing Gamorrean, which falls onto the floor, dead. His axe clangs down next to his head. The spectators gasp in surprise, as Gor Koreshs henchpeople rise from behind and beside him, drawing their guns to the Mandalorians head, along with Gor himself. The spectators flood out of the arena. Koreshs Gamorrean rises up off the floor of the platform, recovering from his injuries. ]

Gor Koresh: (chuckles) Thank you for coming to me. Normally, I have to seek out remnants of you Mandalorians in your hidden hives to harvest your precious shiny shells. (chuckles again) Beskars value continues to rise. Ive grown quite fond of it. Give it to me now or I will peel it off your corpse.

Din Djarin: Tell me where the Mandalorians are and Ill walk outta here without killing you.

Gor Koresh: I thought you said you werent a gambler

[ The Child looks on as the Mandalorian readies his whistling birds for attack, and he quickly closes himself within his crib. ]

Din Djarin: Im not.

[ Quite suddenly, he releases the whistling birds. They shoot out, killing all four of Koreshs henchmen. The Mandalorian kicks the Childs crib out of the way of the fighting, and the Gamorrean jumps down from the platform to tackle him. As the Mandalorian shifts to the side, the Gamorrean smashes into the wooden spectator bench and is subsequently knocked out. The Twilek doorman grabs the Mandalorian from behind, but is quickly dispatched. Gor Koresh runs out of the arena, frightened. The Mandalorian briefly fights with two Zabraks and a Human warrior. The human is knocked out, as one Zabrak is stabbed. As the other Zabrak charges towards the Mandalorian, who throws a blade into his chest. The warrior falls. The Mandalorian sees Gor Koresh escaping out of an exit, and he quickly snatches up his pistol, which was dropped during the recent fighting, and begins following him. Gor Koresh flees outside, and the Mandalorian is quick to pursue, shooting out his grappling hook and catching him by the legs. Koresh falls into the dirt, as the Mandalorian pulls him in and slings the rope around one of the street lamps lining the dirt path, tying it to the bottom, and pulling Koresh upwards, so that he hangs upside-down, facing The Mandalorian. ]

Gor Koresh: All right, stop, stop! Ill tell you where he is. But you must give me your word that you wont kill me.

Din Djarin: I promise you will not die by my hand. Now, where is the Mandalorian you know of?

Gor Koresh: (groans) Tatooine.

Din Djarin: What?

Gor Koresh: (groans again) The Mando I know of is on Tatooine.

Din Djarin: Ive spent much time on Tatooine. Ive never seen a Mandalorian there.

Gor Koresh: My information is good, I tell you. The city of Mos Pelgo. I swear it by the Gotra! (groans again, more prominently this time.)

Din Djarin: Tatooine it is, then.

[ The Mandalorian begins to slowly walk away with the Childs carriage in tow, leaving Gor Koresh hanging precariously from the old, grey street lamp. ]

Gor Koresh: Wait, Mando! You cant leave me like this! Cut me down!

Din Djarin: That wasnt part of the deal.

[ The Mandalorian turns around and shoots the street lamp, causing it to go out, and a shroud of darkness to fall upon the hanging, squirming, struggling body of Gor Koresh. ]

Gor Koresh: Wait, what? Wait, what are you doing? Mando! I can pay! Mando! Mando! (screams loudly.)

[ As the Mandalorian and the Child walk away, many ominous pairs of red eyes appear, surrounding Gor Koresh. He struggles more and begins screaming, as the Mandalorian walks into the camera. The main title comes onto the screen, followed by the chapter title (which is Chapter Nine : The Marshal.) We now cut to the Razor Crest flying into the planet of Tatooine. It flies through some canyons, and attracts the attention of a Tusken Raider who is mounted upon a Bantha. The Tusken Raider looks upwards at the ship as it passes, as the Bantha groans. The ship flies towards Mos Eisley Spaceport. Peli Motto, who is working on a podracer engine, glances up to the skies with an open mouth, as the Razor Crest lands in her hangar. She blows on a metal instrument and looks smugly upon it landing. Her pit droid crew pick up their tools, ready to work on the ship. The Mandalorian descends down from the ramp. ]

Peli Motto: Alright. (to pit droids) Hey, hey, hey! Sorry, gang. Come on! You know he doesnt like droids!

Din Djarin: May as well let them have at it. The Crest needs a good once-over.

Peli Motto: Oh! So he likes droids now. Well, you heard him. Give it a once-over!

[ The pit droids walk up to the ship as the Mandalorian approaches Peli Motto. ]

Peli Motto: (chuckles) I guess a lot has changed since you were last in Mos...

[ She abruptly stops speaking as the Mandalorian reveals the Child, hanging in a pouch over his shoulder. Peli takes him out of the pouch, grinning. ]

Peli Motto: Oh! Thank the Force! This little thing has had me worried sick. Come here, you little womp rat. (chuckles) Looks like it remembers me. How much do you want for it? Just kidding. But not really. You know, if this thing ever divides or buds, I will gladly pay for the offspring. Hey!

[ She is distracted by the pit droids working on the Mandalorians ship, as one of them has let an air tube loose, causing a loud, unpleasant noise to emit from it. ]

Peli Motto: Oh, geez. Watch what youre doing up there! He barely trusts your kind! What, you want to give all droids a bad name? Thank you!

[ One of the pit droids - the one who had messed up with the air tube - gets the tube sucked into its face, as the second one balances on top of the third one, examining the ships mechanics. ]

Din Djarin: Im here on business. I need your help.

Peli Motto: Oh, then business you shall have. Care for me to watch this wrinkled critter while you seek out adventure?

Din Djarin: Ive been quested to bring this one back to its kind.

Peli Motto: Oh, wow. (chuckles) I cant help you there. Ive never seen any like it. And trust me, Ive seen all shapes and sizes in this town.

[ A Gonk (GNK) droid waddles around behind the two as they speak. ]

Din Djarin: A Mandalorian Armorer has set me on my path. If I can locate another of my kind, I can chart a path through the network of coverts.

Peli Motto: Youve been the only Mando here for years from what I can tell.

Din Djarin: Where is Mos Pelgo? Im told theres one there.

Peli Motto: Oh. Boy, I havent heard that name in a while.

Din Djarin: Its not on any of the maps.

Peli Motto: Thats cause it was wiped out by bandits. Once the Empire fell, it was a free-for-all. I didnt dare leave the city walls. Still dont.

Din Djarin: Can you tell me where it used to be?

Peli Motto: Depends whos asking. You want to see it? (now shouting quite loudly) R-five! Bring the map of Tatooine!

[ We pan over to see R5-D4, who slowly scoots over towards the two, beeping incessantly. One of his back head panels indicates that he once had a bad motivator that needed replaced. ]

Peli Motto: No, take your time. Seriously. You just cant get good help anymore. I dont even know who to complain to! Lets go, lets go. (scoffs) Waiting! Ok.

[ R5-D4 slowly, but surely, stops in front of them, projecting a yellow hologram map of Tatooine. Peli Motto walks over to it, and moves it around with her fingers, indicating certain locations as she speaks to the Mandalorian. ]

Peli Motto: This is a map of Tatooine before the war. You got Mos Eisley, Mos Espa, and up around this region, Mos Pelgo.

Din Djarin: I dont see anything.

Peli Motto: Well, its there. Or at least it used to be. Not much to speak of. Its an old mining settlement. Theyre gonna see that big hunk o metal long before you land.

Din Djarin: You still have that speeder bike?

Peli Motto: Sure do. Its a little rusty, but I got it.

[ We now cut to the Mandalorian riding throughout the sand dunes of Tatooine on the bike. The Child is on the side, sticking his head out in enjoyment of the rush of air, his ear flapping back like a dogs would. The Mandalorian rides around a cliff, and we cut to him sitting around a campfire at night with a small group of Tusken Raiders, a bunch of Banthas standing around in the background of the shot. The group gesture with their hands to communicate, presumably telling stories to each other. We cut back to the daytime, as the Mandalorian rides throughout some more ridges, past a Bantha skeleton. A wide shot shows the vastness of the Tatooine desert, as his speeder approaches a very small settlement nestled in the middle of the vast, sandy landscape. As he slowly rides into town, he scares off a couple scurriers, who flee from the area. As he rides in, many villagers stare at him. Some are looking out of their doors, or out from their decks, and some are standing around doing various chores at the moisture-farming stations. The Mandalorian finally comes to a stop in front of a saloon, slowly getting up and walking inside. The Child looks up from his pouch as the Mandalorian leaves him and enters the small building. A Weequay bartender looks up to him from working on a drink mixture of some type. The Child slowly peeks around the corner of the door, watching as the Mandalorian approaches the proprietor. ]

Bartender: Can I help you?

Din Djarin: Im looking for a Mandalorian.

Bartender: Well, we dont get many visitors in these parts. Can you describe him?

Din Djarin: Someone who looks like me.

Bartender: Mmm...You mean the Marshal?

Din Djarin: Your Marshal wears Mandalorian armor?

Bartender: (grunts) See for yourself.

[ He gestures with his head over to the door of the saloon, where a figure is standing. The man is wearing the old, beaten-up helmet, torso-piece, wrist-cuffs, ankle-cuffs, kneepieces, jetpack, and other armor of a famed Tatooine-based bounty hunter - in other words, part of a set of Mandalorian armor. He slowly approaches the Mandalorian, his ankle-cuffs clicking. ]

Marshal: What brings you here, stranger?

Din Djarin: Ive been searching for you for many parsecs.

Marshal: Well, now you found me. Weequay, two snorts of spotchka.

[ The Weequay bartender pulls out a flagon of blue liquid - a bottle adorned with a net-like rope, as well as two small cups. The Marshal grabs them and slowly walks over to a table in the seating area. ]

Marshal: Why dont you join me for a drink?

[ He slowly sits down and removes his helmet, setting it upon the table. We pan up to reveal a smirking, middle-aged, grey-haired man. ]

Marshal: Ive never met a real Mandalorian. (chuckles) Heard stories. I know youre good at killing. And probably none too happy to see me wearing this hardware.

[ As he speaks, the Marshal pours the spotchka into the small cups, before eventually setting the flagon back on the table. The Child is cooing as it is examining and touching a spitoon. ]

Marshal: So...I figure only one of us is walking out of here. But then I see the little guy...and I think, maybe I pegged you wrong.

Din Djarin: Who are you?

Marshal: Im Cobb Vanth, Marshal of Mos Pelgo.

Din Djarin: Where did you get the armor?

Cobb Vanth: Bought it off some Jawas.

Din Djarin: Hand it over.

Cobb Vanth: Look, pal, Im sure you call the shots where you come from, but round here, Im the one tells folks what to do.

Din Djarin: Take it off. Or I will.

Cobb Vanth: We gonna do this in front o the kid?

[ The Child glances up from beside the spitoon, somewhat worriedly. ]

Din Djarin: Hes seen worse.

Cobb Vanth: Right here, then?

Din Djarin: Right here.

[ Cobb Vanth sighs and gets up, pushing his chair back. The two men wearing Mandalorian armor stare each other down for a while, in a tense moment. Their hands flit around their blaster holsters. The bartender watches with suspense. Suddenly, there is a loud rumbling sound. Cobb Vanth raises his finger to signal that he needs to check on it, and he and the Mandalorian exit the building, looking out onto the town, as the Child whimpers, and the Weequay bartender leaves from another exit. An alarm blares, a windmill gradually begins spinning faster, scurriers look up in alarm, a bantha groans, and citizens flee to the buildings. A large creature seems to be slithering through the sand towards the town center, making whooping noises. It reaches the town, and passes through it, down the center road, its back scales sticking up through the sand, as all the citizens look on. The creature approaches a tied-up Bantha, jumping out of the sand and consuming it, revealing the massive head of a Greater Krayt Dragon. It quickly flees. ]

Cobb Vanth: Maybe we can work something out.

[ The Child fearfully peeks out from inside the spitoon. As the Mandalorian and Vanth walk through the town in the wake of the Krayt Dragon, many villagers are seen repairing the buildings from the destruction of the beast - settling wooden planks down on the decks, hoisting up large tankards, and welding pieces of speeder bikes back together. ]

Cobb Vanth: That creatures been terrorizing these parts since long before Mos Pelgo was established. Thanks to this armor, Ive been able to protect this town from bandits and Sand People. They look to me to protect em. But a Krayt Dragon is too much for me to take on alone. Help me kill it, Ill give you the armor.

Din Djarin: Deal. Ill ride back to the ship, blow it out of the sand from the sky, use the Bantha as bait.

Cobb Vanth: Not so simple. The ship passes above, it senses the vibrations, stays underground. But I know where it lives.

Din Djarin: How far?

Cobb Vanth: Not far.

[ We cut to the Mandalorian riding on his speeder bike through the Tatooine desert. Cobb Vanth comes up beside him on his speeder, which is the repurposed engine of a podracer. As they ride, Vanth begins a conversation. ]

Cobb Vanth: You dont understand what it was like. The town was on its last legs. It started after we got news of the Death Star blowing up. The second one, that is.

[ Flashback with Cobb Vanth voiceover: People cheer at a hologram recording of the second Death Star blowing up, which repeats again and again. This is the saloon in Mos Pelgo, which is much more inhabited than weve previously seen it. Cobb Vanth and the Weequay bartender smile at each other, as a detachment of the Mining Collective marches in the doors. ]

Cobb Vanth (v/o): The Empire was pullin outta Tatooine. There was blaster fire over Mos Eisley. The occupation was over. We didnt even have time to celebrate. That very night, the Mining Collective moved in.

[ Back to present. ]

Cobb Vanth: Power hates a vacuum, and Mos Pelgo became a slave camp overnight.

[ Back to flashback. The Mining Collective opens fire on the patrons in the saloon. Cobb Vanth ducks behind the bar, where the bartender is hiding as well, as people scream horribly in the background. ]

Cobb Vanth: Hey, you okay? Come on, lets get you outta here. Lets go!

[ Vanth grabs the bartenders arm and safely gets him out of the building. ]

Cobb Vanth: Go! Go! Go! Go!

[ Vanth stumbles around the building as another fleeing man is shot by a member of the Mining Collective in the background. Before his adversary is able to see him, Vanth ducks behind the Mining Collectives speeder. ]

Cobb Vanth (v/o): I lit out. Took what I could from the invaders. Grabbed a camtono. I had no idea it was full of silicax crystals.

[ During voiceover: Vanth looks out to see if any of the Mining Collective is nearby, before snatching up a camtono off the speeder and running away into the night. Back to present. ]

Cobb Vanth: I guess every once in a while, both suns shine on a womp rats tail.

[ Back to flashback. Cobb Vanth is stumbling through the desert, hardly able to stand. ]

Cobb Vanth (v/o): I wandered for days. No food, no water. And then...I was saved. The Jawas wanted the crystals. They offered their finest in exchange. And my treasure bought me more than a full waterskin. It bought my freedom.

[ During voiceover: Vanth finally stumbles and falls down into the sand, grumbling and panting. He is about to give up, before a shadow falls over him. He looks up to see a massive Sandcrawler, which quickly halts before him. Cut to him sitting amongst the chattering Jawas in the interior of the Sandcrawler, vigorously drinking a full canteen of water. The Jawas open the camtono full of the silicax crystals and gasp. They excitedly gather around the crystals, whispering and grabbing at them greedily. In exchange for the crystal, a Jawa comes over to Cobb Vanth and offers him a rifle. He declines. They then offer him a red, green, and white astromech droid. Vanth sighs as another Jawa offers him a protocol droids head. He glances up and sees the Mandalorian armor hanging on the wall, pointing to it. We cut to Cobb Vanth standing back in the town center of Mos Pelgo, adorned in the Mandalorian armor. He slowly walks into the saloon, and the Weequay bartender and members of the Mining Collective look to him in shock. The Mining Collective members seem to potentially recognize the armor from the past. They slowly lower their glasses and stand up from their seats. Vanth gestures with his head for the bartender to move out of the way. The bartender obliges, backing up. Suddenly, one of the Mining Collective members whips out a pistol sitting on the surface of the bar, but Vanth is too quick for him, pulling out his own gun as well. He quickly dispatches four adversaries, but another shoots him in the chestplate. He doubles back, but recovers quickly, shooting his assailant back. He walks out of the bar, as the Weequay bartender looks on in shock and awe. The Mining Collective run to their speeder, shouting Go! and Lets go! in a panicked fashion. The speeder takes off, as Vanth pulls the targeting rangefinder down on the helmet, looking through it to the speeder. With that, he launches the rocket out of his jetpack, and it slowly flies over to the speeder, which it hits perfectly, blowing it up in a spectacular orange explosion. Vanth watches on as the smoke clears from it. Back to the present, Mando and Vanth continue to zoom through the desert on their speeders. We cut to them travelling through a rocky quarry, alongside some cliffs, quite slowly and cautiously. They hear the close-by growl/screech of something, and Vanth raises up his arm, motioning for the Mandalorian to stop. The two halt their speeders and jump off, whipping out their guns and taking defensive positions. The growls echo around the rocky, brown cliffs as Vanth nervously glances around the area. The growls and cries grow closer, and finally a Massif, a reptilian-doglike creature, walks out from behind a large rock. These dogs are often known to accompany Tusken Raiders. It opens its mouth wide and snarls, and the Mandalorian lowers his sniper rifle, while Vanth keys up to shoot the animal as more approach from the boulders. Soon a whole pack is approaching them, snarling loudly. Vanth stands his ground, keeping his gun steady. Suddenly, Mando calls out a Tusken cry, causing the creatures to immediately cease their hostile behavior. They look up to him as he walks forward towards them. ]

Cobb Vanth: What the hell you doin?

[ The Mandalorian gestures for him to stay back and stay peaceful, and walks forward towards the vicious creatures, grunting in the Tusken language. Vanth slowly lowers his weapon, as the Mandalorian kneels down to pet an approaching Massif, who shakes in joy as the Mandalorian rubs them on the side. Vanth fully lowers his blaster pistol, as the Mandalorian continues petting the Massif under the chin. The two compatriots look up as a few Tusken Raiders come out from behind a rock. Vanth looks around nervously, as the Child peeks out from the sack he is in on the side of the Mandalorians speeder. The Mandalorian and the Tusken Raiders speak Tusken back and forth for a bit, using hand gestures as well. ]

Cobb Vanth: Hey, partner, you want to tell me whats going on?

Din Djarin: They want to kill the Krayt Dragon, too.

[ We cut to the nightime in a Tusken Raider camp, where a Tusken is cleaning the teeth of a Bantha with a gaffi stick. We pan around the camp, and see many small tents set up. A Massif is following a Tusken Raider through the camp, as the Mandalorian and Cobb Vanth sit around a flickering campfire with several Tuskens, who are speaking to them in their Tusken language. As a Tusken stands up a higher rock and looks out, surveying the desert, while the Mandalorian speaks to the crowd around the fire in Tusken. The Child looks around, unsure about the conversation between the Mandalorian and the Tusken Raiders. A Massif looks at him and licks his lips, and the Child coos quite nervously. One of the Tuskens cracks open a black gourd, a type of fruit that plays an important role in Tusken society, with his thumbs, and hands it to Cobb Vanth. Black powder steams out of the top of it, as Vanth very reluctantly takes it. He smells it.

Cobb Vanth: What am I supposed to do with this?

Din Djarin: You drink it.

Cobb Vanth: It stinks.

Din Djarin: Do you want their help?

Cobb Vanth: Not if I have to drink this.

[ One of the Tuskens begins angrily shouting at Vanth. As the Mandalorian speaks, the Tusken continues angrily talking. ]

Din Djarin: He says your people steal their water and now you insult them by not drinking it. They know about Mos Pelgo. They know how many Sand People you killed.

Cobb Vanth: They raided our village. I defended the town.

Din Djarin: Lower your voice.

Cobb Vanth: I knew this was a bad idea.

[ The Tusken angrily stands up in a confrontational stance, screeching out even louder. ]

Din Djarin: Youre agitating them.

Cobb Vanth: These monsters cant be reasoned with!

[ Vanth stands up himself to confront the Tusken. The Tusken continues arguing viciously in its native language, and Vanth quickly addresses it. ]

Cobb Vanth: Sit back down before I put a hole through you! Im not going to say it-

[ Very suddenly, the Mandalorian activates his flamethrower, causing a spiral of flame to erupt next to the two arguing people. They both immediately cease their arguing, and the Mandalorian stands up. The Child looks at the fire from his seat on the ground, squinting his eyes. The Mandalorian turns off the flamethrower and both Vanth and the Tusken look at him in surprise. The Mandalorian quickly tells the Tusken Raider something in the Tusken language. ]

Cobb Vanth: What are you telling them?

Din Djarin: The same thing Im telling you. If we fight amongst ourselves, the monster will kill us all.

[ The Tusken and Vanth slowly sit back down around the campfire. The Mandalorian addresses them both again, speaking in English, and gesturing in Tusken. ]

Din Djarin: Now, how do we kill it?

[ We cut to a single file line of Tusken Raiders riding atop Banthas in the Tatooine desert. It is now daytime. The Mandalorian and Vanth are accompanying them, riding on Banthas as well. The Child, hitched to the side of the Mandalorians Bantha in a tan pouch, looks out onto the Tatooine desert in awe. A group of six Banthas and their respective riders slowly walk atop a hill, and a canyon opens up below them. We cut to the view out of a set of macrobinoculars, watching a Tusken Raider slowly lead a Bantha on a rope towards the large cavern where the Krayt Dragon lives. Vanth, the Mandalorian, and the other three Tuskens are seen watching in suspense from the ridge above. One of the Tusken Raiders begins speaking to the Mandalorian in Tusken. He turns to Cobb Vanth to translate. ]

Din Djarin: They say it lives in there. They say it sleeps.

[ A Tusken Raider hands the Mandalorian the pair of macrobinoculars, which he looks through. He scans over the large opening on the side of the cliff. ]

Din Djarin: It lives in an abandoned Sarlacc pit.

Cobb Vanth: Lived on Tatooine my whole life. Theres no such thing as an abandoned Sarlacc pit.

Din Djarin: There is if you eat the Sarlacc.

[ Cobb Vanth looks confusedly towards the large pit, and the Mandalorian lowers the macrobinoculars, handing them back to one of the Tuskens. He continues to watch his fellow Tusken Raider lead the Bantha up to the large pit. ]

Din Djarin: Theyre laying out a Bantha to protect the settlement. Theyve studied its digestive cycle for generations. They feed the dragon to make it sleep longer. Watch, the dragon will appear.

[ The Tusken hammers down a pole attached to Banthas rope into the ground. Vanth looks on, fascinated, as the Tusken calls out into the large cavern to get the Krayt Dragons attention. The Child looks on from the ridge as well, whimpering. The growling of the dragon is heard, and a low rumbling begins. Vanth looks up, incredibly alert, as the sand begins to give way as the beast travels out of its home. The Tusken turns around and runs as fast as it can away from the cavernous opening. The Krayt Dragon shoots out of the sand, missing the Bantha entirely, and swallowing up the poor Tusken Raider. The Child ducks behind the ridge, terrified. The Tusken with the macrobinoculars quickly lowers them in shock. The Krayt Dragon very quickly retreats back into the cave, leaving the Bantha alone by the entrance. ]

Din Djarin: They might be open to some new ideas.

[ The Child slowly raises his head, peeking back out from behind the cliffside. The Bantha at the cavernous opening groans a bit more. We cut to the Tusken Raiders back in their camp, speaking to each other in their language, and laying out a diorama with rock and bones to represent the Krayt Dragon and its cave, as well as the scale between the creature and the humanoids who intend to fight it. The model of the Krayt Dragon is far larger than the small stones that represent the others. ]

Cobb Vanth: What are the bones?

Din Djarin: Thats the Krayt Dragon.

Cobb Vanth: And those little rocks?

Din Djarin: Thats us.

Cobb Vanth: Its not to scale.

Din Djarin: I think it is.

Cobb Vanth: Cant be. Thats too big.

[ The Tuskens begin speaking to the Mandalorian, who speaks back to them for a moment, before turning back to Vanth. ]

Din Djarin: Its to scale.

Cobb Vanth: Ive only seen its head and neck. Thats a whole lot bigger than I guessed.

[ The Tuskens continue speaking amongst each other, clearly planning out a strategy to attack the Krayt Dragon in some way. ]

Cobb Vanth: Might be time to rethink our arrangement.

[ The Tuskens and the Mandalorian converse briefly, and the Mandalorian seems to suggest something. The Tuskens look at each other, and then one of them grabs another handful of rocks and sprinkles it around amongst the others in the model. ]

Cobb Vanth: Thats more like it. Where are they getting the reinforcements?

Din Djarin: I volunteered your village.

[ Vanth widens his eyes and looks a bit worried and confused. We cut to Vanth and The Mandalorian riding across the Tatooine desert again on their speeders. The pull back into the town center of Mos Pelgo. As they skid to a halt at the side of a building deck and Vanth dismounts his speeder, he begins another conversation. ]

Cobb Vanth: They attacked us less than a year ago. Killed half a dozen of us by the mining camp. Id say I took down about twice as many Tuskens.

Din Djarin: The town respects you. My guess is, theyll listen to reason.

Cobb Vanth: I wouldnt be so sure.

[ The Mandalorian looks a bit contemplative as Vanth walks away, and then proceeds to get off his speeder and follow the Marshal into the saloon. Cut to the inside of the saloon, where the townspeople are gathered in the seating area. Vanth and the Mandalorian face them, standing right in front of the bar. Vanth addresses his citizens as they murmur amongst themselves. ]

Cobb Vanth: This here is a Mandalorian. You know what that means?

Bartender: Well, weve heard the stories.

Cobb Vanth: Then you know how good they are at killing. Now, this ones got a problem. I got a suit o salvaged armor and the Mandalorian creed says its his to take.

[ The townspeople murmur in discontent. ]

Cobb Vanth: But Ive got a problem, too. A Krayt Dragon has been peeling off our pack animals, and sometimes, taking our mining haul with it. Its just a matter of time before it grows tired of Banthas and goes after a couple of you townsfolk, or even, so help us, the school.

[ At this assertion, the townsfolk murmur and chatter a bit more, shaking their heads at the implication that a Krayt Dragon could destroy their way of life even further than at present. ]

Cobb Vanth: As much as Ive grown fond of the armor, Im even more fond of this town. The Mandalorian is willing to help us slay the leviathan in exchange for returning the armor to its ancestral owners.

Bartender: Well, that settles it.

Cobb Vanth: Theres more. We cant take on the Krayt alone. And the Sand People are willing to help.

[ Immediately, the crowd grows restless in protest of this. Some of them stand up and start shouting incredulously. ]

Male Townsperson: They raid our mines!

Bartender: Theyre monsters!

Din Djarin: Ive seen the size of that thing, it will swallow your entire town when the fancy hits it. Youre lucky Mos Pelgo isnt a sand field already. I know these people. They are brutal. But so is the Dune Sea. Theyve survived for thousands of years in these sands and they know the Krayt Dragon better than anyone here. They are raiders, its true. But they also keep their word. We have struck a deal. If we are willing to leave them the carcass and its ichor, they will stand by our side in battle and vow never to raise a blaster against this town until one of you breaks the peace.

[ The townspeople contemplate this and slowly nod their heads, tap their fingers, and glance at each other, clearly coming to the realization that this is the best course of action to go with. We cut to the townspeople gathering supplies in a storage shed at the edge of town. The Mandalorian and Cobb Vanth stand in the entryway as people carry crates, boxes, and various other containers around them. ]

Cobb Vanth: Think itll work?

Din Djarin: It better. Joining forces is their only hope.

[ Some townspeople open a container and lift out some white explosive canisters of something, as the Mandalorian and Vanth walk outside to the deck. They look to their left to see a large, single file line of Tusken Raiders approaching on Banthas. The townspeople stand around and look in awe. One woman taps a younger man on the shoulder to get him to see this odd sight, and they look on, a bit frightened. Multiple Tuskens ride atop each Bantha, and they slowly approach the unsettled townsfolk of Mos Pelgo. They eventually come to a halt. We cut to the Tuskens helping the townspeople unload cargo and prepare for the journey ahead. One man hands a Tusken Raider an explosive canister of sorts. ]

Male Townsperson: Here. Grab this.

[ The townsperson keep handing the Tusken the white canisters, and they load them onto the side of a Bantha. The townsperson quite quickly hands the Tusken one, causing the Tusken to drop it onto the deck. The Mandalorian and Vanth look up, alert. ]

Male Townsperson: Hey, hey! What are you doin? Thats an explosive! What, are you trying to blow the whole place up? What? Is that what you want?

[ The Tusken gets up in the townspersons face in a confrontational mode. Cobb Vanth quickly pushes past the Tusken and confronts the townsperson. ]

Cobb Vanth: Take it easy. It was an accident, okay?

Male Townsperson: What do you want to do?!

Cobb Vanth: It was an accident!

[ The townspeople and Tuskens continue to work together to load things up. Some male townspeople mumble things such as Lets go and Its not gonna work out. Cobb Vanth walks back over to the Mandalorian and looks at him, soon speaking in a sarcastic tone. ]

Cobb Vanth: Its gonna be great.

[ We cut to a wide shot of the Banthas riding single file upon a sandy ridge in the Tatooine desert, Tuskens and townspeople mounted on their backs. Large expanses of desert stretch before the travellers as they slowly meander along. Cobb Vanth and the Mandalorian slowly ride their speeders alongside the Banthas. Several more wide shots of them travelling, before the line of Banthas finally approach the Krayt Dragons cavern. As they stop, a fair distance away from the cave, the Tuskens and townspeople dismount and chatter amongst themselves, running around in preparation. In a large crowd, everyone steps forward together towards the edge of a short ridge overlooking the cave, toolboxes and explosives on hand, watching as a single Tusken Raider steps towards the entrance of the den. The Tusken stops at the mouth of the cave, getting down on its knees and leaning its head towards the ground, and resting its hand on the sand. The Child gazes out of its pouch, nervous. After a moment, the Tusken looks up, and a low rumbling is heard from the cave. The Tusken turns back towards the crowd and signals something to them. ]

Cobb Vanth: Whatd he say?

Din Djarin: He says its sleeping. If we listen carefully, we can hear it breathing.

[ A Tusken Raider hands Cobb Vanth another black gourd, which he begrudgingly accepts and takes a large drink from, sighing. ]

Din Djarin: Lets get to work.

[ Tuskens begin running about and herding the Banthas around, townspeople carry small explosives. The Tuskens and townspeople work in unity, throwing ropes and weapons to each other to set up, showing that even very different, fighting cultures can become stronger together if they work to defeat something that plagues them both. ]

Din Djarin (v/o): The Tuskens say the belly is the only weak spot, so we have to hit it from below. First, we bury the charges at the opening of the cave. Then, we wake it up. We have to get it angry enough to charge. Once its far enough out, and the belly is above the explosives, you hit the detonator.

[ During voiceover: The townspeople hand white explosive canisters to each other, and begin to dig large trenches around the mouth of the cave. The Tusken Raiders set up large crossbow-like weapons in a line around the mouth of the cave to use against the creature. They turn wheels and pulleys, and position the large metal arrows so they are pointing in the direction of the cave. The workers continue to dig the trenches, lining them with the white explosive canisters. A townsperson powers up a detonator, readying it to be used at the push of a button. She slowly makes her way over to Cobb Vanth and the Mandalorian, who walk forward towards her. She hands the detonator to Vanth. ]

Jo: Careful, Marshal.

Cobb Vanth: Thank you, Jo. And you stay safe, huh.

[ Jo nods her head and walks back over to the other townspeople. Vanth and the Mandalorian walk forward, and look out on the line of Tuskens and townspeople facing along the mouth of the cave, with their weapons at the ready. It is eerily quiet as the workers stand along the mouth of the cave, and several Tuskens lead their Banthas away. Three Tusken Raiders walks straight forward, stopping right at the cavernous opening. They lean their weapons up against their sides, and put their hands to their mouths, screeching out into the large cave to wake the Krayt Dragon. The beasts growling can soon be heard, and the Tuskens quickly turn and run back to the line of defenses. The aspect ratio changes to fit the entire screen, as the Krayt Dragon slowly reveals itself, shooting out of the sand, its mouth open and wide. Cobb Vanth looks petrified, coming to the realization of just how dangerous this could be. The Tusken Raiders yell and shoot the arrows from the crossbow-devices, however it barely affects the large beast. Two of the three Tuskens who summoned it reach the line of defenses, as the other trips, causing the Krayt Dragon to bite down on it, swallowing it. The Mandalorian looks through his spyglass, as the creature begins backing up into its cave. ]

Din Djarin: Dank farrik, its going back in.

[ Some of the Tusken Raiders frantically hold onto the ropes that are attached to the metal arrows that have been shot into the dragons head, however this merely pulls them along the sand towards the beast, and some of the arrows soon come loose. Many Tuskens run forward to save their brothers, as a few townspeople shoot at the Krayt Dragon, to no avail. ]

Din Djarin: Its retreating.

[ Cobb Vanth looks down at the detonator in his hands. ]

Cobb Vanth: Im going to hit it.

Din Djarin: No, wait. We only have one shot. Weve gotta get it out.

[ The townspeople begin throwing small grenades at the Krayt Dragon to try and get it further out of the cave. The Weequay bartender shoots a rifle at it. Some Tuskens begin shooting as well, and the creature finally begins moving towards them again. The townspeople and Tuskens continue their barrage of shooting and grenade-throwing, to the extent that the massive Krayt Dragon opens its jaw very wide and charges right towards them with a new anger. People scream and run as it screeches, and shoves its head into the sand, missing the targeted townspeople it was going for. ]

Cobb Vanth: Now?

Din Djarin: Not yet. Its gotta come out further.

[ The Mandalorian continues looking through his spyglass-like object, as the Tuskens shoot off more of the grappling-hook crossbows, holding tight onto the ropes and coaxing the dragon a bit more towards them. The giant beast roars and lifts its head, causing Tuskens to fly into the air. The Weequay bartender looks up at it in utter fear, as it roars loudly. The townspeople and Tuskens begin turning and retreating, as the Krayt Dragon suddenly begins spitting its green, slimy venom at them, inflicting very heavy casualties. It dives forward towards them, slamming its head into the sand again and closing its mouth. ]

Din Djarin: Almost, almost. Now!

[ Vanth clicks the detonator, and the explosives go off underneath the Krayt Dragon, causing it to roar out in pain. The townspeople and Tuskens fall backwards the duck for cover of flying sand. Vanth and the Mandalorian flinch, and the Child looks on, squinting at the explosion. The workers duck and cover their eyes, as the particles blow at them, and the dragon sinks down into the desert sand. They begin to look up again, as it becomes quieter, and help each other up. They slowly approach the place where the beast disappeared with curiosity. ]

Cobb Vanth: I dont think its dead.

Din Djarin: Me either.

[ As the workers look around, a low rumbling is heard, and everyone looks up to the cliff face above the cavern. The Krayt Dragon bursts through the rock, roaring viciously, and begins shooting its venom down from its gaping maw, high above its attackers, again inflicting heavy casualties of Tuskens and townspeople. ]

Cobb Vanth: Its picking us off like womp rats. Lets get after it.

[ Vanth and the Mandalorian grab their rifles as the Child looks on from his pouch. Vanth puts his helmet on the two men in Mandalorian armor use their jetpacks to fly up towards the dragon. The Child angles its head upwards, looking curiously at them. They fly high into the sky, and land on the rocky ridge next to the Krayt Dragon, right beside its head. They ready their guns, and point them at the creature, shooting near its eye, which does absolutely nothing. ]

Cobb Vanth: This aint doing a thing!

Din Djarin: Just keep shooting.

[ They finally get the Krayt Dragons attention, and it turns its head towards them, opening its mouth wide. They fly away to safety just before the creature bites down on the rock they had landed on. Flying back to the ground, they get in defensive positions, pointing their guns towards the dragon on the ridge. The creature retreats back down into the rock face, and everyone looks on in suspense. Some of the Tuskens lower their rifles. An ominous cloud of grey dust travels down the rocky ridge-like hill, and the Krayt Dragon suddenly bursts out of the sand behind them. The Mandalorian and Vanth swiftly turn around, and the dragon glides through the sand towards them and their allies. ]

Din Djarin: There he is.

[ The dragon continues to burst through the sand, consuming a few townspeople and Tuskens. The Mandalorian looks over to a whining Bantha with a large amount of the white explosive canisters hitched to its side, and seemingly has an idea. ]

Din Djarin: Ive got an idea. Get its attention.

[ Vanth obliges, swiftly using his targeting rangefinder to shoot his back rocket towards the beast, hitting it in the head and causing a large explosion. The Krayt Dragon screeches in pain, and angrily turns its head towards Vanth and the Mandalorian. Tuskens and townspeople yell Go! and Run!, scrambling off away from their large attacker. ]

Cobb Vanth: I got its attention! Now what?

Din Djarin: You still have that detonator?

[ Vanth quickly grabs the detonator and hands it to the Mandalorian, frantic to kill the beast. ]

Cobb Vanth: Take it! Whats the plan?

Din Djarin: Youre gonna take care of the Child.

Cobb Vanth: What are you gonna do?

Din Djarin: I dont know, but wish me luck.

[ With that, the Mandalorian slams the back of his rifle into Vanths jetpack, causing Vanth to fly into the air in order to stay safe from the beast. The Mandalorian activates something on the detonator, causing the explosives on the Bantha to activate. As the Banthas moans, the Krayt Dragon swallows another Tusken Raider and moves straight towards the Mandalorian. The stake for the Bantha shoots out of the ground, and the Mandalorian scrambles to grab it again. ]

Din Djarin: No! No, no, no! Hold on! Hold on! Whoa, whoa, whoa!

[ He successfully secures the Bantha and turns back towards the Krayt Dragon. The beast charges right at him and opens its mouth wide, diving towards him and swallowing both him and the Bantha whole. It disappears into the sand, as the remaining Tusken Raiders and townspeople look on in shock. Vanth is able to secure his malfunctioned jetpack and land on the ground, his targeting rangefinder having been flicked down by accident in the chaos. It quickly flips itself up, and he begins panting. A few Tuskens slowly approach the place where the dragon leapt into the sand, and Vanth removes his helmet, looking on in shock. The Child whines from his pouch. Many of the townspeople start putting down their weapons. Suddenly, another loud rumbling is heard, and everyone looks around unsurely. The Krayt Dragon bursts out of the sand again, opening its mouth, out of which flies the Mandalorian, who had shocked the inside of its mouth with his rifle to let him out. With the Bantha still inside of the beast, he clicks the detonator, which causes a massive explosion from inside of the Krayt Dragon. Tuskens and townspeople duck and cover, as a shockwave shoots out in all directions. The foul creature screeches its loud, whooping call one last time, and falls into its wreckages. The Mandalorian lands and turns to see the fallen creature, his armor dripping with its venom. Cobb Vanth looks on and smiles, chuckling slightly, and getting up, along with the remaining townspeople and Tusken Raiders. Everyone begins cheering, and lifting up their weapons. ]

Bartender: Yeah!

[ Townspeople and Tuskens pat each other on the back, and Vanth smiles at the Mandalorian, grateful for his help. We cut to when the dust around the carcass has cleared. Half of the dragons innards are exposed, its ribs and meat sticking out of the sand. The Tuskens harvest the meat with their gaffi sticks and other tools. The Child examines a piece of Krayt Dragon meat that the Mandalorian had put onto the speeder. The Mandalorian covers it with a sheet, and turns to Cobb Vanth, who is approaching, holding his armor. He hands it over to the Mandalorian gratefully. ]

Din Djarin: Sorry, I didnt have time to explain.

Cobb Vanth: No need. This was well-earned.

Din Djarin: It was my pleasure.

[ The Mandalorian and Cobb Vanth shake hands firmly. ]

Cobb Vanth: I hope our paths cross again.

Din Djarin: As do I.

Cobb Vanth: Oh, and you tell your people I wasnt the one that broke that.

[ Vanth walks away over to his townspeople, and the Mandalorian slowly nods, with the Child cooing beside him. One of the Tusken Raiders, digging through the meat of the Krayt Dragon, discovers a large Krayt Dragon pearl, which is a prized treasure on Tatooine. He lifts it into the air to show the others of his kind, and they all begin cheering in triumph, lifting their weapons in the air in sheer celebration. The Mandalorian mounts his speeder and takes off from the area, the aspect ratio slowly changing back to normal size as he rides through the desert. It is dusk, and the twin suns are setting. As he rides, a bald figure in a black cloak watches him from a ridge - a rifle and a gaffi stick attached to his back. He slowly turns around and walks towards and past the camera, revealing a damaged and scarred face that looks a bit familiar. Cut to black, and the credits start to roll. ]




Ep 10 - The Passenger

[ We open with the sandy Tatooine desert on a wide shot. It seems to be morning, and the Mandalorian is shooting across the desert on his speeder, returning from his Mos Pelgo visit. The Child, hitched onto the side in his little tan pouch, squints as sand particles fly into his face. Meanwhile, close by, a Nikto is hammering a metal spike into some rock. He turns and looks over his shoulder, alert. Another of his accomplices - a human - looks up as well. The Nikto hears the roaring of the Mandalorians speeder, approaching the rock gully where he and his accomplices are laying out their trap, and looks back down, continuing to hammer in the spike. The old Mandalorian helmet that was given to Mando by Cobb Vanth bounces slightly on the side of his speeder, as the Mandalorian approaches the rock gully. He accelerates even more, going quite fast now. The Nikto and his accomplices loop a rope around the metal spike, and bury the rest of the rope in the sand. A metal rod is cranked down. The Mandalorian is nearly upon them now, and just before he passes them, the human pulls up the rope, causing it to block the Mandalorians path. He flies off of his speeder, the Child and the damaged Mandalorian helmet of Vanths rolling onto the ground. Quickly activating his jetpack, the Mandalorian stumbles and lands, as his speeder blows up, utterly destroyed. The bounty hunters reveal themselves and begin shooting the Mandalorian in his beskar armor. The Child sits helpless in the sand. ]

Human Bounty Hunter: Get the Child!

[ A small alien with a metallic-looking face, speaks something in his alien language and nods, as the Nikto and human approach the Mandalorian, shooting him. Another burly human comes from the rocks behind him and runs towards him with a metal rod. The small alien draws his small gun, and just before the burly human is able to hit the Mandalorians pistol out of his hand, the Mandalorian shoots the small alien, blowing him back, but not hurting him too badly. The burly human swings at the Mandalorian, hitting the rock and he dodges the vicious attacks. The small alien gets up and limps behind some short rocks, pulling open the case to a much larger gun - seemingly a rifle of some sort. The Mandalorian and the burly human continue to brawl, but the Mandalorian slices him in the neck and chest area, incapacitating him. Very quickly, the other human and the Nikto approach him. The small alien comes out of the rocks with the large gun, as the Mandalorian tussles with the other two. The small alien activates the rifle and points it at the three tussling people, and the Mandalorian grapples out the hook on his wrist, pulling the rifle out of the small aliens hands and towards him. It slams into the heads of his two larger attackers, knocking them out, and to the sandy ground, as the Mandalorian ducks. He stumbles forward, but looks to see that the small alien has the Child in his arms, holding a knife to him. ]

Din Djarin: Wait! Dont hurt the Child. If you put one mark on him, theres no place you will be able to hide from me. We can strike a bargain. Theres a lot of value in this wreckage. Take your pick.

[ The Child coos, as the small alien looks around and contemplates this. The alien looks over and notices the Mandalorian helmet lying in the sand. ]

Din Djarin: But leave the Child.

[ The small alien gestures upwards, pointing his knife to the Mandalorian and saying something in his odd alien dialect. He gestures for the Mandalorian to put something on the ground. The Mandalorian grabs his jetpack and pulls it off his back. ]

Din Djarin: Okay. Here. Its yours.

[ He slowly and cautiously sets the jetpack on the ground, stepping back. ]

Din Djarin: Take it.

[ The small alien points his knife towards the Mandalorian, gesturing for him to back up more. ]

Din Djarin: Its okay.

[ The small alien finally sets the child down next to the jetpack, and picks the large metal device up, saying something to the Mandalorian in his alien language, and quickly running off into the desert with the jetpack. The Child runs to the Mandalorian, whimpering, and the Mandalorian goes down and picks him up, nestling him in his arms. ]

Din Djarin: You okay?

[ The Child coos in what is seemingly some sort of a response. The Mandalorian turns back to the small alien running away with his jetpack, and clicks some buttons on his wrist panel. The jetpack activates and shoots up, with the alien screaming out in surprise. He clicks the buttons a few more times, and the alien eventually falls from a great height into the sand, dead. A cloud of sand puffs up from the impact of his body. The Child slowly turns his head and looks up at the Mandalorian, snorting. The Mandalorian shrugs his shoulders and turns his head, pressing a few more things on his wrist panel. The jetpack slowly lowers itself out of the sky and lands in the sand, falling over onto its back with a clunk. The Mandalorian averts his eyes from the jetpack and looks up towards the wreckages of his speeder, the green, slimy Krayt Dragon acid still visible, dried on his helmet. The main title comes onto the screen, followed by the chapter title (which is Chapter Ten : The Passenger.) We cut to the Mandalorian travelling in the Tatooine desert, heat waves distorting the shots. He is carrying a large pack on his back, holding up his rifle with both hands as multiple bags and different things hang off of it. He walks along a ridge, and looks towards Mos Eisley Spaceport on the horizon. We cut to him at night, walking through the streets of Mos Eisley. The Child, nestled in his pouch on the side of the Mandalorian, chirps and coos, as strange aliens and vagabonds walk around them, and ships take off into the night sky from hangars across the city. The Mandalorian passes two Jawas arguing over a metal tube and enters the Mos Eisley Cantina. As denizens chatter, he walks to a booth at the back where Peli Motto is playing Sabacc with an insectoid creature. The Mandalorian approaches the booth and stops, Motto still focused on the game. ]

Peli Motto: I dont know. Looks like someones gonna be goin home empty-handed.

[ The creature and Motto both stop and look over at the Mandalorian, and Motto notices the old Mandalorian helmet hanging from his traveling pack. ]

Peli Motto: You finally found a Mandalorian and you killed him?

Din Djarin: He wasnt Mandalorian. I bought this armor off of him, though.

Peli Motto: Whatd that set you back?

Din Djarin: Killed the Krayt Dragon for him.

Peli Motto: Oh. Is that all?

Din Djarin: He was my last lead on finding other Mandalorians.

[ The insectoid creature begins speaking to Motto in his alien language, to which she nods her head. She turns to the Mandalorian. ]

Peli Motto: Okay. Well, you might be in luck. Dr. Mandible here says he can connect you with someone who can help you, if you cover his call this round. Its what he said.

Din Djarin: Whats the bet?

Peli Motto: Five hundred.

Din Djarin: Thats a high-stakes game.

Peli Motto: Hey, hes on a hot streak.

[ The child coos, as Dr. Mandible says something else in his language. The Mandalorian sighs, grabbing some credits and throwing them on the table. ]

Peli Motto: Is the pot right?

[ Dr. Mandible says something in his language, and Peli Motto reveals her cards on the table - an Idiots Array. ]

Peli Motto: Ha! Idiots Array! Pay up, thorax!

[ Dr. Mandible speaks in his alien language, as Motto takes her winnings. ]

Din Djarin: I thought you said he was on a hot streak?

Peli Motto: Oh. Stop your cryin. Youll rust.

[ Dr. Mandible says something else to Motto, which she translates for the Mandalorian. ]

Peli Motto: All right. He says the contact will rendezvous at the hangar.

[ Dr. Mandible says something else. ]

Peli Motto: Theyll tell you where to find some Mandalorians. Thats what you wanted, right? All right, well, stop your mopin. More importantly, did you bring back any of that dragon meat? Better not have any maggots on it. I dont like maggots.

[ As the Mandalorian and Peli Motto walk away, followed by R5-D4, Dr. Mandible shakes his head at Mottos comment. We cut to the Child watching the chunk of Krayt Dragon meat being cooked. The chunk of meat is beating heated intensely by a podracer engine in Mottos hangar, dripping of juices, and it is held up by a Treadwell droid. The Child coos in excitement as he watches it cook. The Mandalorian and Pit Droids watch, as Peli Motto walks through the door, causing the Treadwell droids head to turn. ]

Peli Motto: Hey, dont overcook it, Treadwell! I like it medium rare! Im not some Rodian, for crying out loud.

[ Motto sighs, turning and addressing the Mandalorian, as a Gonk (GNK) droid meanders around behind them. ]

Peli Motto: All right, heres the deal. A Mandalorian covert is close. Its in this sector, one system trailing.

Din Djarin: Are they the ones that left Nevarro?

Peli Motto: Dont know. All I know is that the contact will lead you to them.

Din Djarin: How much will it cost me?

Peli Motto: Well, thats the great news. Its free. Aside from a finders fee, of course.

Din Djarin: Whats the not-great news?

Peli Motto: Nothing. Its all great.

Din Djarin: Okay.

[ The Mandalorian turns to leave, before Motto speaks up again. ]

Peli Motto: However, there is one small skank in the scud pie.

Din Djarin: Which is?

Peli Motto: The contact wants passage to the system.

Din Djarin: Do you vouch for them?

Peli Motto: On my life.

Din Djarin: Fine.

[ The Mandalorian again turns to leave, but Motto begins talking once more. ]

Peli Motto: And...no hyperdrive.

Din Djarin: You want me to travel sublight? Deals off.

Peli Motto: Its one sector over.

Din Djarin: Moving fast is the only thing keeping me safe.

Peli Motto: These are mitigating circumstances.

Din Djarin: What do you mean mitigating?

[ Motto turns around, as a Frog Lady walks through the door to the hangar, croaking a bit. She is holding a pack on her back, which is a tank of many orange eggs. She croaks as she walks over to the two having a conversation. The Mandalorian puts his hands on his hips. ]

Din Djarin: Im not a taxi service.

Peli Motto: I know, I know, I hear you. But I can vouch for her.

[ The Frog Lady comes up and stands next to Motto, speaking in her Frog language. The Child looks curiously at the eggs on her back in the blue tank. ]

Din Djarin: Whats the cargo?

[ Peli Motto asks the Frog Lady in her native language, to which the Frog Lady responds. Motto translates for the Mandalorian. ]

Peli Motto: Its her spawn. She needs her eggs fertilized by the equinox or her line will end. If you jump into hyperspace, theyll die. She said her husband has settled on the estuary moon of Trask in the system of the gas giant Kol Iben.

Din Djarin: She said all that?

Peli Motto: I paraphrased.

Din Djarin: Is she sure there are Mandalorians there?

[ Motto asks the Frog Lady, who responds in her language, and then turns back to the Mandalorian. ]

Peli Motto: She said her husband has seen them.

[ As the Frog Lady speaks in her language a bit more, the Child stares intently at the egg pack mounted on her back, cooing curiously. The Frog Lady turns and walks towards the Razor Crest, croaking a bit more. ]

Din Djarin: Do you know the husband?

Peli Motto: No. I just met her ten minutes before you walked in.

[ A Pit Droid walks up to Motto with a plate of Krayt Dragon meat. ]

Din Djarin: I thought you said you vouched for her on your life.

[ Peli Motto grabs a piece of the meat off the plate and takes a large bite, chomping into it. ]

Peli Motto: What can I say? Im an excellent judge of character.

[ We cut to the Razor Crest flying through space, away from Tatooine. The Mandalorian is adjusting a few things in the cockpit of the ship. He addresses the Frog Lady. ]

Din Djarin: Now, Im gonna ask you to stay strapped in whenever youre seated. Traveling sublight is a bit dicey these days. Whether its pirates or warlords, someone either ends up with a nice chunk of change, or your ship.

[ The Frog Lady says something in her language. ]

Din Djarin: I dont speak whatever language that is. You speak...Huttese?

[ The Mandalorian says something in Huttese (Mahala to havaka?), but the Frog Lady continues to stare at him, seemingly clueless. The Mandalorian turns away from her and flicks a switch, sighing. We cut to the Child peeking around a corner of the interior of the ship, looking towards the canister of eggs sitting on the floor. He coos as he walks slowly towards it, going up to it and looking into it, pressing his face and hands up against the glass. He quickly turns around to see if anyone is nearby, looking at the ladder up to the cockpit, and once he sees that no one is there, he turns back to the eggs, cooing as he puts his right hand on the glass, pulling the eggs around with the force closer to him. In the cockpit, the Mandalorians data pad shows the course, setting it on auto-pilot. The Mandalorian flicks a few more switches. ]

Din Djarin: So, Im gonna hit the rack. Ive set the nav for our course. Its gonna take a while. I recommend you get some rest.

[ The Mandalorian gets up and walks out of the cockpit, the shiny grey door sliding open for him. The Frog Lady looks up to him as he exits, and then turns her head when he leaves, croaking. The Mandalorian swiftly slides/jumps down the ladder, and into the bottom part of the ship. He opens the sleeping rack to see that the Child is not there. ]

Din Djarin: Kid?

[ Slurping is heard as the Mandalorian turns around to find the Child with the egg container, the lid open. The Child is lifting an egg out of the gooey liquid. The Mandalorian quickly runs towards him. ]

Din Djarin: No, no, no, no, no!

[ The Child slurps the egg down before the Mandalorian can do anything about it, and quickly flips the lid closed, picking the Child up and facing him. ]

Din Djarin: That is not food. Dont do that again.

[ The Child burps, and the Mandalorian turns to go over to the sleeping rack. ]

Din Djarin: Nap time.

[ The Mandalorian sets the Child in the small hammock-like pouch at the top of the rack, and the Child coos. The Mandalorian crawls in underneath him to sleep as well, closing the door. We briefly fade to black. Suddenly, beeping is heard, and we cut back to the door of the sleeping rack, which quickly zooms open as the Mandalorian crawls out. He swiftly climbs the ladder up to the cockpit, as some red lights flash around him. The door to the cockpit opens and he walks through, swiftly pushing his chair around so he can easily sit in it, and sitting down. The Frog Lady is sleeping in one of the passenger seats. He flicks a comm on, and the voice of an X-Wing pilot comes through it. ]

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Razor Crest, M-One Eleven. Come in, Razor Crest. Do you copy?

[ Two X-Wings are shown flying up to the ship, cruising along with it, one on each side. As the Frog Lady lightly snores in the background, the Mandalorian hesitantly speaks to the pilot. ]

Din Djarin: This is Razor Crest. Is there a problem?

Captain Carson Teva (comm): We noticed your transponder is not emitting.

Din Djarin: Yes, Im pre-Empire surplus. Im not required to run a beacon.

Captain Carson Teva (comm): That was before. This sector is under New Republic jurisdiction. All craft are required to run a beacon.

Din Djarin: Thank you for letting me know. Ill get right on it.

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Not a problem. Safe travels.

Din Djarin: May the Force be with you.

Captain Carson Teva (comm): And also with you.

[ The Mandalorian sits quietly for a moment in the cockpit, before the pilot speaks again. ]

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Just one more thing.

Din Djarin: Yes?

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Im gonna need you to send us a ping. Were out here sweeping for Imperial holdouts.

Din Djarin: Ill let you know if I see any.

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Im still gonna need you to send us that ping.

Din Djarin: Well, Im not sure I have that hardware online.

Captain Carson Teva (comm): We can wait.

[ The Mandalorian seems to be contemplating what to do. ]

Din Djarin: Yeah...I...I...doesnt seem to be, uh, working.

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Thats too bad. If we cant confirm youre not Imperial, youre gonna have to follow us to the outpost at Adelphi. Theyll run your tabs.

Din Djarin: Oh, wait. There it is. Transmitting now.

[ The Mandalorian flips the auto-pilot switch off, and the Frog Lady wakes up with a start, croaking loudly. ]

Din Djarin: (quietly) Be quiet!

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Whats that?

Din Djarin: Uh, nothing. The hypervac is drawing off the exhaust manifold.

[ The Frog Lady continues making some noise, prompting the Mandalorian to turn his head to her in annoyance. The other X-Wing pilots voice soon comes through the comm as the Frog Lady ceases her noise-making. ]

Trapper Wolf (comm): Carson, can you switch over to channel two?

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Copy.

[ The Mandalorian looks on as the two X-Wings set and lock their S-foils in attack position. ]

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Was your craft in the proximity of New Republic Correctional Transport, Bothan-Five?

[ The Mandalorian pauses for a moment, before hitting the accelerator and zooming off, away from the X-Wings. The Frog Lady is abruptly startled, and begins screaming in fear. We see the cockpit of Trapper Wolf. ]

Trapper Wolf: We got a runner.

[ Cut to the cockpit of Captain Carson Teva. ]

Captain Carson Teva: Im on it.

[ The two X-Wings quickly zoom after the Razor Crest, which flies swiftly down to the nearby ice and glacier planet of Maldo Kreis. The Mandalorians ship just above the billowing clouds of the planet, pursued very quickly by the New Republic ships. The Razor Crests cockpit is shaking about, and the Frog Lady croaks a bit with anxiety. ]

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Razor Crest, stand down. We will fire. I repeat, we will fire.

[ The Razor Crest continues to zoom around the clouds, evading them. Cut to a view from Trapper Wolfs X-Wing cockpit as he pursues the old ship. ]

Trapper Wolf: I dont know where he thinks hes goin in that thing.

[ The Mandalorian very suddenly pulls sharply around another corner of clouds. We cut back to Trapper Wolfs cockpit view. ]

Captain Carson Teva (comm): That things gonna break apart in this atmosphere.

[ The Mandalorian flips his ship around, and turns the power off of the engines, so the ship begins falling. The Frog Lady begins to scream loudly, very frightened at whats going on, as the ship falls straight down. The ship continues tumbling down, and the Frog Lady continues screaming as it falls through the clouds. As the glacier-like surface of Maldo Kreis reveals itself, the Mandalorian puts his ship back into gear and begins flying down into an ice canyon. The X-Wings still trail after him. ]

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Hes headin down into that canyon.

[ We cut to Tevas cockpit, where his targeting computer is lining up with the Razor Crest. ]

Captain Carson Teva: I got im. Target computer active.

[ The Razor Crest continues to fly throughout the perilous ice canyon, where jagged spikes of ice stick up everywhere, the X-Wings still hot on its tail. ]

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Come on, Razor Crest, dont make us do it.

[ The Mandalorian stays relentless, flying the Razor Crest around a bend and straight towards a narrow ice cavern on the side of a glacier. He grunts as he smashes the back end of his ship against the side of the glacier, zipping into the ice cavern. The two X-Wings pass him by, seemingly not noticing. Breathing heavily, the Mandalorian attempts to navigate through the icy caves. He turns to the Frog Lady. ]

Din Djarin: Hold on.

[ The Frog Lady grunts and croaks loudly in response. The Mandalorian smashes the sides of his ship up against some more glaciers, and the Razor Crest begins sliding uncontrollably along a large sheet of ice. It shoots up, and the Mandalorian activates its engines, however it hits the ice again, flying back under a small glacial overhang. The Mandalorian pants in relief as his ship stops, and settles down to a halt at last. The X-Wings pass by in the distance, not noticing him. His comm turns on, and Captain Carson Teva is speaking, however he is cutting out greatly. ]

Captain Carson Teva (comm): Ive lost visual. Hes got to be around here somewhere. You head north. Well cover more ground.

[ The Frog Lady begins gasping and groaning, as the Mandalorian flicks a few switches off and on. The Frog Lady gets out of her seat straps, but only just before the ice underneath the Razor Crest begins to crack and break. Before the Mandalorian can do anything, the Razor Crest falls through the ice, the boxes and crates inside, including the canister of orange eggs, slide around and fall throughout the bulk of the ship. The Frog Lady screams as they fall, and the Razor Crest quickly lands in a small ice cavern, on a patch of snow, with a large thud. The Mandalorian is thrown forwards, up against the control consoles. The ship is clearly damaged - mostly covered in ice and snow, with electrical sparks going off on it. Shrouds of snow continue to fall from the recently-made hole, covering the ship. We cut to black, and then back to some time later - presumably a couple hours. The Mandalorian is still knocked out at the control console, and flecks of ice and snow cover his beskar armor. He wakes up and slowly sits up, grunting and groaning. He flicks a few switches in the cockpit, but to no avail. The Frog Lady is groaning on the floor, shivering from the cold. The Mandalorian quickly gets out of his seat and helps her up, as she is croaking at him in distress. ]

Din Djarin: Ill find your eggs, dont worry.

[ The Frog Lady continues to whimper nervously. ]

Din Djarin: Gotta get you some blankets, keep you warm.

[ The Mandalorian walks through the sliding doors of the cockpit, and jumps down the ladder. A large hole has been broken through on the side of the ship, through which a draft of cold, icy air is blowing snow flecks into the main cargo area. Electrical sparks emit around the bulk of the ship, and all of the crates of the Mandalorians cargo have coats of ice and snow on them. The Mandalorian looks at this in disbelief. ]

Din Djarin: Damn it.

[ The Mandalorian turns around and opens the sleeping rack, to find the Child not there. ]

Din Djarin: Where are you?

[ The Frog Lady croaks in distress from up in the cockpit. The Mandalorian turns up to her and yells in response. ]

Din Djarin: Hang on, Im looking for your eggs!

[ The Mandalorian walks throughout his ship, carefully stepping over his crates and cargo. He pushes a few ropes aside and hears an odd noise coming from beneath a thick piece of cloth. He swiftly pulls it back, to reveal the Child, who has opened the egg canister again, and has one in his hand. The Child looks up to the Mandalorian. ]

Din Djarin: No! No...I told you not to do that.

[ The Mandalorian swiftly picks up the canister, closing it, as hes speaking. He looks at the canister, as the Frog Lady is seen yelling down from the cockpit. The Mandalorian turns his head to her general direction. ]

Din Djarin: Found them!

[ The Mandalorian looks back down to the Child again, who slurps up one of the eggs, and then stares back at his guardian. ]

Din Djarin: How many did you eat?

[ The child gulps, swallowing the rest of the recently-eaten egg, and then burps. We cut to the Mandalorian working on a few things in the hull of the ship. The Frog Lady is there too, with her eggs, and huddled under some blankets. The Mandalorian turns back to her. ]

Din Djarin: If you hadnt guessed, were in a tight spot.

[ The Frog Lady uses her tongue to eat something out of a metal canister. ]

Din Djarin: The main power drive is not responding, and the hull has lost its integrity. I suspect the temperature will drop significantly when night falls.

[ The Child, a small box of food in his hands, looks back up to the egg canister with longing. ]

Din Djarin: Ill have a better idea of our prospects at that time.

[ The Mandalorian sits down and rests himself up against the wall of the ship. The Frog Lady turns to him, speaking in her own, difficult to understand, language. She gestures to her eggs, trying to tell the Mandalorian something, however he clearly cannot understand her. He shakes his head lightly at her speaking. ]

Din Djarin: Im sorry, lady. I dont understand Frog. Whatever it is, it can wait until morning. I recommend you get some sleep.

[ The Mandalorian crosses his arms and leans down, slumping up against the wall, as the Frog Lady whimpers and pulls her blanket off, looking at her eggs in worry. The Child crawls up to the Mandalorian and climbs up onto his thigh to sleep as well. The Frog Lady covers her egg canister with the blanket, patting it protectively. She looks up to the disassembled droid, Q9-0, who is mounted on the Mandalorians wall. The Frog Lady grunts and croaks a bit, and we cut to the Mandalorian sleeping against the wall a little while later. ]

Frog Lady (through Q9-0): Wake up, Mandalorian.

[ The Mandalorian swiftly draws his gun towards the droid. ]

Frog Lady (through Q9-0): This cannot wait until morning. Do not be alarmed. I bypassed the droids security protocols and accessed its vocabulator.

[ The Frog Lady is revealed to be speaking through a small vocabulator device, which translates her language through Q9-0. ]

Din Djarin: What the hell are you doing?

[ The Mandalorian slips his blaster back away in his holster, pointing up to the Frog Lady. ]

Din Djarin: That droid is a killer.

Frog Lady (through Q9-0): These eggs are the last brood of my life cycle. My husband has risked his life to carve out an existence for us on the only planet that is hospitable to our species. We fought too hard and suffered too much to resign ourselves to the extinction of our family line. I must demand that you hold true to the deal that you agreed to.

[ The Child looks on curiously. ]

Din Djarin: Look, lady, the deal is off. Were lucky if we get off this frozen tomb with our lives.

Frog Lady (through Q9-0): I thought honoring ones word was a part of the Mandalorian code. I guess those are just stories for children.

[ The Child looks up to the Mandalorian, cooing. The Mandalorian slowly glances down at him and then sighs. He looks back over to the Frog Lady and gets up, lifting the Child off of him before he stands. He swiftly grabs a toolbox, and leaves the ship to begin repairs. ]

Din Djarin: This was not a part of the deal.

[ The Mandalorian walks outside into the slowly atmosphere, the wind whistling and howling around him, as snow blows. Sparks emit from loose wires hanging down from his wrecked ship. The Mandalorian slowly walks around the damaged Razor Crest, examining the wreckage. He slowly walks up to the fuel tank, noticing that it is leaking badly. He looks up and examines the rest of the ice cavern, continuing to walk around his ship, as the camera pans up. A bright light blind the view, and we cut to a shot of the Mandalorian welding something on the ship. He looks over to see the Child, standing on the icy, cold ground, speaking in his gibberish language. He is pointing to something. ]

Din Djarin: How bout you come over here, give me a hand? Make yourself useful.

[ The Mandalorian turns back to his broken ship, and continues to the weld on it. The Child slowly lowers his hand, and sighs with a coo. He begins walking away to get the Mandalorians attention, and the Mandalorian ceases his welding and looks over as the Child leaves. ]

Din Djarin: Hey, kid.

[ The Child continues to walk away, ignoring him, prompting the Mandalorian to set his welding gun down, and quickly follow him around the ship. ]

Din Djarin: I said hey! Where are you going? Come back here!

[ The Child has stopped at a small mound of snow, and the Mandalorian kneels down beside him, the two looking towards a trail of the Frog Ladys footprints through the snow, leading away from the ship. ]

Din Djarin: When did she go?

[ The Child responds in his odd language, and the Mandalorian scans the footprints through the thermal scanner on his helmet, making it easier for him to see where they lead, which is in a large ice cave. The Mandalorian picks the Child up and begins following the footprints, walking slowly into and through the icy cave, where many sharp icicles hang down from the slick ceiling. He and the Child look around nervously as they walk, and they follow the footprints around another bend. The Mandalorian turns the thermal scanner back on on his helmet, seeing them lead to a place where, behind an ice wall, more heat is coming from. The Mandalorian quickly follows the footprints around to an ice cave, where the Frog Lady is wading in some hot springs, her eggs floating around her. ]

Din Djarin: There you are.

[ The Mandalorian quickly walks towards the edge of the pools, looking around and examining the rest of the small cave. ]

Din Djarin: You cant leave the ship. Its not safe out here.

[ The Frog Lady croaks, as the Mandalorian sets the Child down at the edge of the pool. He looks into the blue water at the floating eggs. The Mandalorian kneels down to the edge of the largest pool as well. ]

Din Djarin: Lets gather these up.

[ The Frog Lady begins croaking in anxiety as the Mandalorian grabs her eggs and places them back into the blue canister. ]

Din Djarin: I know its warm. But nights coming fast, and I cant protect you out here.

[ The Mandalorian continues to gather up the eggs, and the Frog Lady speaks in her language yet again, croaking as she pushes an egg forward to help the Mandalorian. He grabs it, and the two continue to work to get all of the eggs back into the canister, as the Child flits his right hand in the water near the eggs. The Mandalorian blocks him from grabbing them with his hand, sticking his finger out. ]

Din Djarin: No. No!

[ The Child looks at him and whines, as the Mandalorian resumes gathering the eggs. The Child turns around and begins sniffing and cooing curiously, looking towards a large amount of blue eggs sticking out of the ground. He slowly walks over to them, as the Mandalorian and Frog Lady are still distracted by gathering the eggs. The Child walks through the snow amongst the field of blue eggs, and approaches one, sniffing it, and soon pulling away at its soft shell. The shell is quickly pulled apart, and the child grabs a bluish-white ice spider out from inside, sticky strands of a yellow-brown substance coating it. He quickly crunches it down. We cut back to the Mandalorian and the Frog Lady continuing to collect the rest of the eggs. As the Child finishes off his ice spider, the shot zooms out to reveal all of the other blue ice spider eggs shaking and cracking open, small spiders climbing out of them. The Frog Lady pushes the last of her eggs towards the Mandalorian, which he loads into the canister, but he is soon distracted by the cooing of the Child, who is running towards him through the field of hatching eggs. The Mandalorian stands up to see the eggs hatching, and quickly grabs the Child, as the Frog Lady croaks in nervousness. The Mandalorian closes the egg canister, and hoists it onto his back with the strap attached to it. The Frog Lady continues to swiftly look around, gasping. She grabs her clothes with her tongue, which were sitting folded on the edge of the pool she was swimming in. The Mandalorian looks around as hundreds of small spiders crawl towards him, and the Frog Lady runs up next to him, now dressed in her clothes. They look up to a large cavern, where larger spiders crawl out from, including ones nearly half the size of the Mandalorian. A growl emits from the cavern, and an absolutely massive ice spider reveals itself. It growls, and the Mandalorian frantically gestures to the Frog Lady, who begins running, and quickly gets past him. ]

Din Djarin: Go, go, go! Back to the ship!

[ The Mandalorian continues to look on, as the giant spider growls even louder, and begins advancing towards him, along with the other, smaller ones. The spiders seem to crawl out from everywhere, as the Mandalorian follows quickly behind the running Frog Lady. The giant spider, who is unable to fit through the ice tunnels that they are running through, nearly catches up with them before they reach the tunnels, growling viciously. It snaps at them, missing them, before crawling above the shiny ceilings of the tunnels, directly above them. Its legs smash through the ceiling, as the smaller spiders follow closely behind the companions throughout the tunnels. The Mandalorian begins blasting the ice spiders with his pistol, killing several of them, but still very few of the total number. The giant ice spider sticks its head through a hole in the ice caverns, and spids a web from its mouth, blocking off a possible exit for the Mandalorian and Frog Lady. They quickly run the other away, as the Mandalorian continues to shoot the spiders. The Frog Lady, who is falling behind, looks back and croaks in fear. She begins leaping clumsily, like her species does in their natural environment, throughout the tunnels, slipping and sliding around, and quickly passing in front of the Mandalorian. One of the giant ice spiders legs spears down from the ceiling, and the Frog Lady dodges it, and begins running on her feet again. The Mandalorian prepares three detonators, and throws the charges on both sides of the icy walls and onto the ceiling. They blow up, causing the ceiling to shatter. The massive ice spider falls through with a large thud onto the ground, and the Mandalorian looks to see that it is seemingly defeated. Continuing to shoot spiders throughout the cavern, the Mandalorian and the Frog Lady - who is still croaking greatly in nervousness - stop, and the Mandalorian ignites his flamethrower on his wrist. We see a shot of another part of the cave, and the icy walls are lit up with orange, shimmering, flickering reflections. The Frog Lady hops around a bend, followed closely by the Mandalorian. Although the Mandalorian was able to subdue the spiders, many still follow not too far behind him and his companions. As they exit the cave, the Mandalorian continues to shoot the spiders, and swiftly retreats to his ship. The Frog Lady hops into the entrance of the ship, and the Mandalorian hands the Child to her, whom she sets down. The Child runs off into the ship in fright. The Mandalorian then hands the Frog Lady her canister of eggs, which she swiftly takes as well. One medium-sized spider swiftly shoots a web at the Mandalorian, sticking his blaster-holding arm to the side of the ship. A small spider jumps at him as he struggles, and he squishes it in his hand, green juices squeezing out of it, as he throws it on the ground to his side, hard. He quickly untraps his hand, pulling it away from the side of the ship, and continues shooting the vicious ice spiders. The spiders pursue him into his ship, as he continues shooting them. He hurriedly climbs up the ladder to the cockpit, shooting as many spiders who try to climb up after him as he can. Unable to handle them, he backs up into the cockpit, the doors sliding partially shut, however being held open by the ice spiders. He continues shooting them as they pile up to get through. The Child peeks around his leg, as several smaller spiders are able to get inside of the cockpit. One of the small spiders crawls onto the Childs head, and he whimpers and screams, raising his arms up to get it off. A blaster bolt quickly shoots it, destroying it, and then shoots another two ice spiders approaching the Child. It is revealed that the very small blaster is being used by the Frog Lady, who is sitting with her eggs up against the main control console in the cockpit. The Mandalorian finally activates his flamethrower, and is able to burn enough ice spiders and hold the others off to get the doors of the cockpit closed. The Child looks up anxiously as he does this. The Mandalorian begins panting, and he and the Frog Lady look at each other. The ice spiders continue to crawl over the glass of the cockpit from the outside. The Mandalorian sits in his pilots chair and begins flipping and pressing several different things. ]

Din Djarin: Strap yourselves in. This better work.

[ The Frog Lady croaks and holds her egg canister to her body tightly, as the Mandalorian continues flipping things and pressing other things. The Child climbs to his lap. ]

Din Djarin: Ive got limited visibility. Its gonna be a bumpy ride.

[ The engines roar to life with the Mandalorians pull of a lever, and the Razor Crest slowly begins rising out of the ice and snow. However, before it can take off adequately, the giant ice spider falls on top of it, revealing itself to still be alive. The ship crashes back down to the cold, slick surface of the cavern. The giant ice spider smashes its leg through the glass and into the cockpit twice. It peers through the glass, and pushes its mouth up against it, sticking it to the window and rubbing along it in an attempt to eat it, seemingly. The Child looks up in fright. As the giant ice spider is suddenly about to strike down again, a few red blaster bolts from outside shoot it in the head, and it falls off of the ship. The Mandalorian and the Child look around in surprise, as more blaster fire emits outside, and the Mandalorian wheels his chair around, standing up and walking out of the cockpit. He sets the Child down, and arms himself with his blaster as the doors slide open. Closing the cockpit doors so the other will be safe, he advances on, as the Frog Lady nervously looks up through the window. The Mandalorian pushes and pulls a lot of webbing away as he walks slowly through the hull of his ship. A small ice spider is crawling off to the side, which he quickly shoots. He slowly approaches the side exit to the ship and walks outside. Many ice spiders are being shot off the side of his ship by the two X-Wing pilots, who have landed and are using their rifles, their cockpits open, and their headlights glaring brightly. Theyre able to kill the rest of the spiders, and they quickly cease their shooting, lowering their guns, as the Mandalorian walks towards them reluctantly. ]

Captain Carson Teva: We ran the tabs on the Razor Crest.

[ The Mandalorian slowly lowers his pistol as well. ]

Captain Carson Teva: You have an arrest warrant, for the abduction of prisoner X-Six-Nine-Eleven. However, onboard security records show that you apprehended three priority culprits from the Wanted Register. Security records also show that you put your own life in harms way to try to protect that of Lieutenant Davan from the New Republic Correctional Corps. Is this true?

Din Djarin: Am I under arrest?

Captain Carson Teva: Technically, you should be. But these are trying times.

Din Djarin: What say I forego the bounties on these three criminals, and you two help me fuse my hull so I can get off this frozen rock?

[ Trapper Wolf smirks at this, and Captain Carson Teva looks a bit annoyed. ]

Captain Carson Teva: What say you fix that transponder, and we dont vaporize that antique the next time we patrol the Rim?

[ The two pilots look at each other, and begin climbing back into their cockpits, which close. As the Mandalorian looks on, the two X-Wings slowly lift up and take off, out of the ice caverns, through a hole at the top. The Mandalorian turns back around to his ship, as the red light from their tail lights fades from reflecting on his helmet and other beskar armor. The Mandalorian walks back into his ship and addresses the Frog Lady and the Child, who are now down in the hull themselves. ]

Din Djarin: All right. Im gonna repair the cockpit enough for us to limp to Trask. Theres nothing I can do about the main hulls integrity, so were gonna have to get cozy in the cockpit. Its the only thing I can pressurize. If you need to use the privy, do it now. Its gonna be a long ride.

[ We now cut to the Child curiously watching the Mandalorian welding something inside of the cockpit of the ship, and we then cut to him welding something on the outside of the ship, seemingly a large metal plate to cover up one of the holes the giant ice spider broke through. The Child still continues to watch him through the glass of the cockpit. Finally, the doors slide shut, as the Mandalorian walks into the cockpit, holding the Child in his arms. He sits down in his chair. ]

Din Djarin: Okay, repairs all done. Lets see if we can get this thing going once and for all.

[ The Mandalorian begins flipping, pressing, and pushing various things in the cockpit. He pulls a lever to start up the engine, which works perfectly. The Razor Crest slowly rises out of the ice canyon, the large legs of the giant ice spiders sliding off of the cockpit. The Frog Lady squeals. Hitting a few ice walls along the way, the Razor Crest successfully rises fully out of the cavernous ice caves, and flies away from Maldo Kreis, out of the atmosphere, limping along throughout space. The Mandalorian flicks a few more things. ]

Din Djarin: Wake me up if someone shoots at us. Or that door gets sucked off its rails.

[ The Frog Lady says something in her own language. ]

Din Djarin: Im kidding. If that happened, wed all be dead. Sweet dreams.

[ The Mandalorian crosses his arms and lays his head back against the seat, as the Frog Lady croaks a little bit more. The Child turns to look and her and the canister of her eggs, grunting. The Frog Lady says something else in Frog, and holds the canister closer to her, protectively. The Child turns back towards the window out of the damaged cockpit, and coos, lifting an egg up and slurping it down, revealing that he somehow had already somehow gotten one. The quite damaged Razor Crest continues to float through space, slowly limping its way along, as the engines sputter indefinitely. As it travels into the vast sea of stars, we then cut to black, and the credit start to roll. ]


Ep 11 - The Heiress

[ We open on a shot of a large, green planet that is assumed to be the gas giant, Kol Iben. Just past it, a small, blue moon can be seen. The damaged Razor Crest comes into frame, slowly limping its way towards the blue moon - Trask. The engines are still flickering, and the back ramp hangs open, bouncing up and down as it drifts through space. Inside the cockpit, the Child is dozing in a chair, the Frog Lady is gripping tightly to her canister of eggs as she snores, and the Mandalorian has fallen asleep as well, slumped in the pilots chair. An alarm begins beeping, signifying the arrival to Trask, and the Mandalorian quickly wakes up, and looks at the alert on the navigational screen on the control console. The Child rubs his eyes and coos, as the Frog Lady wakes as well. ]

Din Djarin: Looks like we made it. Get ready for landing.

[ As they approach the estuary moon, the Mandalorian flicks a few switches and presses a few buttons. Something seems not to be working, and he hits the control console in frustration. ]

Din Djarin: Dank farrik! The landing array isnt responding. Without the guidance system, itll be a manual re-entry. It might get a little choppy.

[ The Child whimpers as the Mandalorian continues pressing and switching things. ]

Din Djarin: Once were through the atmosphere, there should be just enough fuel to slow us down. If we dont burn to a crisp.

[ The Mandalorian angles the ship upwards as it begins entering Trasks atmosphere, falling at an increasingly fast pace. The bottom of the ship begins to heat rapidly, and soon bursts into flames. Alarms blare in the cockpit, and the Mandalorian hurriedly adjusts some things around it. ]

Din Djarin: Come up here, I need your hands!

[ The Frog Lady, who he was talking to, carefully sets her egg canister down and goes up to the Mandalorian, grunting nervously. She attempts to hold her eggs in place so they dont fall. ]

Din Djarin: This lever needs to stay back. Can you do that?

[ The Frog Lady grunts in agreement, and grabs on to the lever, holding it back like she was asked to do. ]

Din Djarin: Keep it steady. Here we go.

[ The Frog Lady nervously glances back at her sloshing egg canister, and the ship gains more momentum, burning and zooming into the atmosphere even further. On the surface of the docks of Trask, specifically the one where the Mandalorian is intending on landing, a Mon Calamari dock worker looks up to the burning hunk of metal in the sky in great annoyance. The Razor Crest is nearly upon the docks now, and finally Trask Flight Control wires in. ]

Trask Flight Control (comm): Razor Crest, this is Trask flight control. Please reduce your speed to port protocol.

Din Djarin: Im trying my best here. Engage reverse thrusters. Brace!

[ The Frog Lady, her hand still on the lever that she needs to keep back, turns to hold her egg canister in place as well, carefully pushing it up against the seat so it will be more secure. The Mandalorian pulls another lever, and the landing sequence begins. He is able to gain a bit more control of his ship, with begins to slow down as it approaches the landing dock. ]

Din Djarin: Hold on.

[ Metal pieces fly off of the Razor Crest as it grows ever closer, still travelling far too fast. ]

Trask Flight Control (comm): Razor Crest, do you copy? You have to reduce speed.

Din Djarin: Almost there, almost there.

Trask Flight Control (comm): Razor Crest, do you copy? Razor Crest, youre coming in too fast, you have to re-

[ The Mandalorian shuts the comm off as red lights flash on the landing pad below him, and he positions his ship through the navigational computer to line up with the dock. He quickly brakes, and is able to slow his ship down enough to unsteadily land on the dock. He slowly lowers himself down to touch the ground, as the Mon Calamari dock worker continues to look on in sheer annoyance. ]

Din Djarin: Here we go. Nice and easy.

[ The landing computer is lining up, but before the Razor Crest is able to touch the ground, the right engine sputters and part of it blows up, causing the ship to fall over and topple into the water, making a great splash. The Mon Calamari dock worker shakes his head in disapproval. The main title comes onto the screen, followed by the chapter title (which is Chapter Eleven : The Heiress.) We cut to a large crane lifting the Razor Crest out of the bay, slowly. In the cockpit, the passengers shift around as the crane lifts them up. Covered in seaweed, and water draining out from practically everywhere, the ship is very slowly lowered onto the dock, where it finally settles with a metallic clang, as water pours out of the engines. The Mandalorian and the Frog Lady exit the ship, water dripping down onto them as they leave, and walk into the bustling crowd of the docks of Trask, which is primarily comprised of Mon Calamari and Quarren. The Mandalorian approaches the Mon Calamari dock worker. ]

Dock Worker: So, how can I help you?

Din Djarin: Can you fix it?

[ The dock worker looks over the ship a bit. ]

Dock Worker: Fix it? Nah. But I can make it fly.

Din Djarin: Do what you can.

[ The Mandalorian taps a payment button on the dock workers datapad, and walks away with the Frog Lady, who is glancing all around, looking for her husband. ]

Dock Worker: Ill fuel it up. If it still holds fuel.

[ The Frog Lady continues to walk around the docks, and shouts out in her Frog language. After glancing around a bit, she hears the lower croaking call of her husband, and widens her eyes and mouth when she sees him looking for her on the other side of the dock. She runs to him happily, squealing, and they embrace. As the Mandalorian approaches with the Child in his pod by his side, the Frog Man lifts the egg canister off of his wifes back, and looks at the eggs inside, as he converses intimately with his wife. The Child looks up to the Mandalorian, both of whom are watching the two, and coos at him longingly. ]

Din Djarin: I know youre hungry. Well get you something to eat.

[ The Child looks back down at the eggs, whimpering. The Frog Man stands up and grabs the Mandalorians arm, sincerely thanking him for his help in transporting his wife. ]

Din Djarin: Youre welcome. I was told you could lead me to others of my kind.

[ The Frog Man nods and points over to a building offscreen, grunting in his odd language. ]

Din Djarin: The inn? Over there?

[ The Frog Man kneels back down to his wife and their eggs, as the Mandalorian looks over to see a mysterious woman in a cloak watching him from afar, amongst the crates on the dock. As several Trask inhabitants pass by her, she vanishes. The Mandalorian looks on suspiciously, and continues to follow the Frog Lady and the Frog Man across the docks and to the inn. We cut to inside of the inn, where a viscous soup is being sloshed into a bowl from a tube by a Mon Calamari server. The Quarren at the table pulls the bowl towards him once it has filled, and begins eating it. Other Mon Calamari, Quarren, and a few humans dot the cantina. The Frog Man enters first, waving to a Mon Calamari server, who waves back. The two Frog people point to the inside of the inn. ]

Din Djarin: Thank you.

Server: Have a seat over there.

[ The server gestures to a table, where the Mandalorian sits down. The Child is already at the table in his pod. The Mon Calamari server approaches the table slowly. ]

Server: What can I get you?

Din Djarin: Nothing for me. A bowl of chowder for my friend.

Server: These seats are scarce, buddy. Everyone seated needs to eat.

Din Djarin: I can buy something else.

[ The Mandalorian places three Calamari Flan on the table, sliding them forward. ]

Din Djarin: Information.

[ The server takes the money. ]

Din Djarin: Have you seen others that look like me?

[ The server looks over his shoulder and glances at another part of the room, before pulling down a tube and filling the Childs bowl with the viscous soup. ]

Server: Others with beskar have been through here.

[ The server lifts the tube up and slides the bowl up to the Child. ]

Din Djarin: Who can take me to them?

Server: I know someone who might help.

[ The Mon Calamari server turns and walks over to another table to speak to a Quarren ferryman, as the Child pokes at his soup. ]

Server: (quietly) Theres a Mandalorian. Looking for others of his kind. He was askin about passage. Hes wearing beskar.

[ As the Child is poking at his food with his large wooden spoon, a small, tan squid-like creature jumps out of it, sticking to his face. He cries out, scared. As the Quarren ferryman walks over to the table, the Mandalorian looks over to the Child. ]

Din Djarin: Dont play with your food.

[ The Mandalorian pokes the creature lightly with his knife, causing it to fall back into the bowl, and the Child to calm down. The Child looks back into the bowl and then back up at the Mandalorian, then back down to the bowl again, as the Quarren ferryman sits down at their table. ]

Ferryman: Hmm. You seek others of your kind?

Din Djarin: Have you seen them?

Ferryman: Aye. I can bring you to them. (chuckles)

Din Djarin: Where?

Ferryman: Only a few hours sail. Itll cost you, though.

[ We cut to the large trawler traveling along the ocean, with a Quarren crew on board, handing over ropes to one another and unloading barrels, etc. The Mandalorian and the Child are at the side railing, looking out into the oceans of Trask. ]

Crewmate 1 (background): Coming around.

Crewmate 2 (background): Try the other side.

Crewmate 3 (background): Oh, give me! Yeah, thank you.

Crewmate 2 (background): Over the side!

[ The ferryman/trawler captain walks up to the Mandalorian and rest his hand on the railing of the ship, holding a large metal rod. ]

Ferryman: You ever see a Mamacore eat? Quite a sight. Child might take an interest.

[ The Child looks up to the Mandalorian, cooing. The Mandalorian looks at him in return. ]

Ferryman: You should take a look. Come on over here. Get a good view. Let the kid see.

[ The Quarren ferryman leads the Mandalorian and the Child over to a large pit in the middle of the trawler, covered by a gate of metal bars. As the ferryman pulls a rope to drop a next of fish into the pit, the Childs pod goes up to the edge of the pit, and the Mandalorian blocks him from going any further. ]

Din Djarin: All right, close enough.

[ The Quarren ferryman grunts as he adjusts the rope, and the gate slides open. ]

Ferryman: There we go.

[ Another Quarren pulls a lever, and the next splits open, spilling the fish out into the watery pit. Everyone watches as bubbles emerge from the depths of the water. ]

Ferryman: She must be hungry. Oftentimes well feed her in the early morning, but we missed that cause we were goin out of port!

[ At this last word, the Quarren ferryman hits the Childs pot into the watery pit with the large metal rod that he is holding. ]

Din Djarin: No!

[ The Child and his pod float right into the middle of the pit, and the very large, toothed mouth of the Mamacore soon emerges, eating the pod whole, just before the top part closes. The Mandalorian dives in hurriedly, and a Quarren crewmate quickly closes the gate. ]

Ferryman: Lock it up! Go, go! Now! Go! The beskar is ours! (laughing maniacally)

[ The Mandalorian quickly emerges from the underwater pit/tank, grabbing the bars at the top and coughing. ]

Ferryman: Drown him!

[ One of the Quarren crewmates sticks their metal pole through the bars, trying to push the poor Mandalorian back down into the watery depths. Multiple others do it as well. ]

Crewmate 1 (background): Get him! Get him! There we go!

Crewmate 2 (background): Drown him.

[ The Mandalorian coughs as one of the metal poles hits his helmet, disorienting him and submerging him back into the waters. The Quarrens look down into the pit, still laughing. ]

Ferryman: Were rich, brothers!

[ The Mandalorian emerges yet again from the waters of the dark pit. Some Quarrens gasp. ]

Ferryman: He didnt sink! Finish him! Keep him down!

[ The crewmates oblige, continuing to intensely jam their metal poles into the cage. The Mandalorian continues coughing as all of the Quarren continue jabbing their metal poles into him. Suddenly, he sees another Mandalorian rocket down from the sky and kick one of the Quarren down from through the bars. She shoots this Quarren in the head, and then proceeds to fight off two others. Another female Mandalorian appears, kicking one of the Quarren. The Mandalorian continues to cough in the pit, as the first Mandalorian who appeared fist-fights with a Quarren, stabbing him and then banging him up against a hard metal pole. The other female Mandalorian throws a Quarren overboard, and a male Mandalorian comes down with the help of his jetpack and fights three Quarren at the same time, knocking one out. The other two are grappled at the ankles by the other two Mandalorian, and thrown down. The male Mandalorian shoots both of them once theyve been pulled down. As the Mandalorian coughs, the first female Mandalorian looks into the pit towards him. The barred gate is pulled back, presumably operated by one of the other Mandalorians. The female Mandalorian reaches her hand out to the Mandalorian. ]

Female Mandalorian #1: Take my hand.

[ The Mandalorian takes the female Mandalorians hand, and is slowly pulled out of the water. ]

Din Djarin: Theres a creature. It has the Child.

Female Mandalorian #2: On it!

[ The second female Mandalorian dives into the watery pit, as the other one helps the Mandalorian sit down on a tangled up pile of thick ropes. ]

Din Djarin: The Child. Help the Child.

Female Mandalorian #1: Dont worry, brother. Weve got this.

[ The other female Mandalorian walks up next to the male Mandalorian, and the two mysterious figures in blue, white, and black armor watch the water, as the protagonist Mandalorian stays back on the pile of ropes, still breathing very heavily. The Mamacore is screeching from underwater, and there is blaster fire heard. Yellowish-white flashes can be seen from the surface of the water. The screeching soon stops, and the water is still for a moment, before the female Mandalorian comes bursting out, going up in the air and then landing back on the trawlers surface. She brings the bent pod of the Child to the Mandalorian, and tears off one side of the dented metal casing, grabbing the unharmed Child from inside and handing him to the Mandalorian. ]

Female Mandalorian #2: Here you go, little one.

[ The Mandalorian, still panting heavily and dripping wet, makes sure the Child is uninjured. The other three mysterious Mandalorians watch him as he does so. He looks up to them. ]

Din Djarin: Thank you. Ive been searching for more of our kind.

Female Mandalorian #1: Well, lucky we found you first.

Din Djarin: Ive been quested to deliver this Child. I was hoping that...

[ The Mandalorian stops speaking to the others, as the three remove their helmets. The Mandalorian stands up, as the Child looks to the three, and then back up at the Mandalorian. These three, by the way, are Bo-Katan Kryze (Female Mandalorian #1), Koska Reeves (Female Mandalorian #2, and Axe Woves (Male Mandalorian.) ]

Din Djarin: Where did you get that armor?

Bo-Katan Kryze: This armor has been in my family for three generations.

Din Djarin: You do not cover your face. You are not Mandalorian.

Axe Woves: Hes one of them.

Bo-Katan Kryze: Dank farrik.

Din Djarin: One of what?

Bo-Katan Kryze: I am Bo-Katan of Clan Kryze. I was born on Mandalore and fought in the Purge. I am the last of my line. And you are a Child of the Watch.

Din Djarin: The Watch?

Bo-Katan Kryze: Children of the Watch are a cult of religious zealots that broke away from Mandalorian society. Their goal was to re-establish the ancient way.

[ The Child looks up at the Mandalorian. ]

Din Djarin: There is only one way. The Way of the Mandalore.

[ The Mandalorian walks away from an annoyed-looking Bo-Katan Kryze, and quickly uses his jetpack to fly off of the old, ransacked trawler. Koska Reeves and Axe Woves look at each other, and Bo-Katan sighs. We cut to a shot of the sunset, the figures of the three Mandalorians led by Bo-Katan flying off of the ship. It soon explodes and sinks once they leave, as the Mandalorian watches from the docks. He turns around and walks away, as the shot blurs out a bit. We cut to him walking along the docks, and it is now nighttime. A large trawler with a huge tower on its back departs from the ports behind him. As he walks amongst the cargo on the dock, he hears some bizarre metal clanging. Suddenly, a Quarrens voice calls out towards him. ]

Thug: Hey! You...

[ The tough-looking Quarren thug walks out from behind some cargo with a metal bar in his hand. He slowly approaches the Mandalorian, as do multiple other Quarren from various sides. The Mandalorian very slowly comes to a stop. ]

Thug: You killed my brother.

[ Many more Quarren begin to approach with metal bars and various different weapons for hurting the Mandalorian. ]

Din Djarin: Let me pass.

Thug: (chuckles) I dont think you understand.

[ Another Quarren positions himself with a medium-sized rifle behind a large cargo bin. The Mandalorian looks over to him, as he prepares the rifle to fire, seemingly charging it up. ]

Thug: You killed my brother...and now, Im gonna kill your pet.

[ The Child whimpers in nervously, his ears going down. The Quarren continue to approach the Mandalorian, before the three other Mandalorian suddenly and very quickly descend from the sky, flanking the Mandalorian. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: He didnt kill your brother. I did.

[ The Quarren thug looks to her in confusion for a moment, before she and her two comrades very quickly pull their blasters out, shooting down all of the Quarren thugs on the dock, including the ones behind them. They slip their blasters back away in their holsters, and Bo-Katan turns to the Mandalorian. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Can we at least buy you a drink?

[ We cut to the four Mandalorian and the Child gathered around a table in the back of the inn. The Mandalorian has not removed his helmet, but all of the others have in order to eat. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Trask is a black market port. Theyre staging weapons that have been bought and sold with the plunders of our planet. Were seizing those weapons and using them to retake our home world. Once weve done that, well seat a new Mandalore on the throne.

Din Djarin: That planet is cursed. Anyone who goes there dies. Once the Empire knew they couldnt control it, they made sure no one else could either.

Bo-Katan Kryze: Dont believe everything you hear. Our enemies wanna seperate us. But Mandalorians are stronger together.

Din Djarin: Thats not part of my plan. Ive been quested with returning this Child to the Jedi.

Bo-Katan Kryze: What do you know of the Jedi?

Din Djarin: Nothing. I was hoping you would help me by Creed.

[ The Child looks on and whimpers from his seat at the table, as Koska Reeves sucks a tentacle up from her soup, which the Child looks very interested in. Bo-Katan and Axe Woves look at each other unsurely. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: I can lead you to one of their kind. But first, we need your help on our mission.

Din Djarin: Mission?

[ Bo-Katan looks to him, raising her eyebrows. We cut to the four Mandalorian on top of the Razor Crest, looking out at a large freighter floating above the Trask waters at the docks. It seems to be the early morning. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: You see that Imperial Gozanti freighter? Its being loaded with weapons as we speak. According to the ports manifest, its scheduled to depart at first light.

Din Djarin: So we stow away?

Koska Reeves: Weve been hitting em pretty hard. They scan for life forms as a precaution before pushing back.

Din Djarin: If you wanna do this with four, youre gonna need the element of surprise.

Bo-Katan Kryze: Exactly. The freighter will maintain trawling speed while inside the shipping lanes and then ascend in orbit. Well jet up when theyre cruising at low speed in atmosphere. The tower wont allow them to climb until theyve left the ports airspace.

Din Djarin: Troopers?

Bo-Katan Kryze: A squad at most.

Axe Woves: And they couldnt hit the side of a Bantha.

[ Koska Reeves smirks as Bo-Katan turns around and looks at the Mandalorian, who nods. We cut to the Mandalorian knocking on a metal door. It opens up to reveal the Frog Lady and Frog Man, sitting at their table with their egg canister. ]

Din Djarin: Somethings come up. Can I leave him with you for a bit?

[ The Frog Lady responds, croaking a bit and agreeing. The Mandalorian walks through the door, and begins speaking to the Child. The door closes behind him. ]

Din Djarin: You are gonna stay here, so I want you to be respectful. And mind your manners.

[ The Mandalorian hands the Child to the Frog Lady, who takes him in her arms. ]

Din Djarin: You know what Im talking about.

[ The Frog Lady says something else in Frog to the Mandalorian. ]

Din Djarin: Thanks.

[ The Frog Lady holds the Child up to the side of the egg tank so he can look in, as the Mandalorian exits the room. ]

Din Djarin: Ill be back for him.

[ The Child touches the egg canister and looks inside curiously. A small baby frog hatches from one of the eggs, and the Child opens his mouth and coos in excitement, watching it swim. We cut to a shot of the large Imperial Gozanti freighter lifting up from the docks of Trask. It slowly begins travelling up above the water. It slowly lifts higher and higher up into the air, and the four Mandalorians can be seen flying above it, ready to land on it. They quickly fly above it and then down on it. On the outer rails, two Stormtroopers are stationed. Axe Woves lands first, knocking one of them off of the railing. The other Stormtrooper is quickly taken out by Bo-Katan. As the Mandalorian lands, another Stormtrooper exits the ship onto the railing, closing the door so they cant get in. ]

Stormtrooper: Pirates.

[ The remaining singular Stormtrooper is quickly dispatched by Bo-Katan, as Koska Reeves lands. Grabbing around the Stormtrooper, Koska flies off on her jetpack, still holding him, as he screams. Inside of the ship, the signature Imperial alarm is blaring off, as the Imperial captain who runs it walks past two Stormtroopers and into the cockpit with the pilots, a freighter pilot and a security officer. ]

Security Officer: Pirates again.

[ Suddenly, the Stormtroopers body that Koska Reeves has been carrying, is thrown up against the windshield of the ships cockpit. He sticks for a moment, grunts and groans a bit, before being pulled off again, screaming, by the force of the wind as the freighter moves. The security officer widens his eyes, and turns around to look at the Imperial captain. The captain turns around to his Stormtroopers nearby. ]

Captain: Guard that hall.

[ He turns back to his officers in the cockpit. ]

Captain: Seal the hatch.

Pilot: Yes, sir.

[ The pilot obliges, pressing a button that closes the door into the cockpit. The captain looks very resolute. We now cut to Axe Woves opening the door to get inside of the ship with a device that extends from his wrist cuffs. The door is opened, and the Mandalorians draw their weapons, with Bo-Katan extending a knife from her wrist. Two large doors open and three Stormtroopers run out from somewhere inside of the ship. ]

Stormtrooper: A breach in security. Check the exterior door.

[ Suddenly, Bo-Katan enters the ship, very quickly dispatching the three Stormtroopers, shooting and stabbing them. The others enter behind her, and they begin to walk along the inside hallway. More doors open, and multiple Stormtroopers exit. All of the Mandalorians draw their weapons, as a large barrage of blaster fire comes at them, doing no damage, as theyre all wearing very resilient beskar armor. On one side of the hallway, Bo-Katan and Axe Woves stand behind a console up against the wall, Koska Reeves and the Mandalorian doing the same on the other side. The Mandalorian grunts as he shoots out at the Stormtroopers. Quickly, Bo-Katan exits the hiding place, and the others flank her. They are able to quickly shoot down many other Stormtroopers. They duck in hiding again. After a moment, Koska nods to Axe and Bo-Katan, who emerge from their hiding place and begin shooting, followed by the others. Soon, all of the Stormtroopers have been shot down. The three Trask-based Mandalorians continue to confidently walk along the hallway, shooting control consoles and other things. The Mandalorian reluctantly follows behind them. We cut back to the cockpit. ]

Captain: Whats going on? How many of them are there?

[ Through a comlink, a Stormtrooper speaks to him. ]

Stormtrooper (comm): Hard to say. At least ten, maybe more.

Security Officer: Sir, there are only four life forms.

Stormtrooper (comm): Wait, theyre Mandalorian. Weve- (screams)

[ Blaster fire is heard through the comlink as the Stormtrooper is presumably shot down. The security officer turns his head back around and looks at the Imperial captain. The captain says nothing, just continues to stare forward out of the window. The security officer turns back to the control console in front of him. ]

Security Officer: Theyre headed towards the cargo bay.

Captain: How long until we clear the atmosphere and can make the jump to hyperspace?

Pilot: We cant climb until we leave the harbor zone, sir.

[ The Captain puts his hands on both of the pilots seats. ]

Captain: Climb now.

[ The two Imperials piloting the ship hesitate. ]

Captain: (loudly) Climb now.

[ The two pilots accelerate the engines of the transport, and it begins raising higher and higher as they pull back gradually on the levers. The engines surge, causing the water of the seas of Trask below them to be pushed back and spray out. The ship is now rapidly climbing upwards. We cut to the Mandalorians exiting out of two sliding doors. At the end of the corridor, there is a large contingent of Stormtroopers. ]

Stormtrooper: Look! Over there! Stop them!

[ The two parties begin shooting at each other, and the four Mandalorians hide behind some metal doors that are mostly opened, on either side of the corridor. The Mandalorian quickly rolls a beeping smoke bomb into the hallway towards the feet of the Stormtroopers. As the Stormtroopers continue advancing and shooting, the bomb explodes, leaving a shroud of grey smoke in the hallway, greatly obscuring the Stormtroopers views. Looking through their thermal scanners on their helmets, the Mandalorians walk out into the smoke and blast the Stormtroopers, who scream. They soon have all of them down, and continue moving through the ship. In another part of the ship, Stormtroopers are handing large guns to each other to prepare for their arrival. ]

Stormtrooper: Go, go, go!

[ The Stormtroopers begin advancing down the halls. Two of them run into the cargo bay, where a deck officer is stationed with multiple other Stormtroopers. The deck officer quickly speaks to the cockpit through his comlink. ]

Deck Officer: Whats happening?

Security Officer (comm): The intruders are heading your way.

[ Back in the cockpit, the Imperial captain addresses the deck officer through comlink. ]

Captain: Just hold them off long enough until we can make the jump to hyperspace...

[ Cut back to the cargo bay. ]

Captain (comm): ...and rendezvous with the fleet.

Deck Officer: Copy.

[ The nervous deck officer lowers the comlink, and soon raises his blaster, speaking to all of the Stormtroopers stationed all around him. ]

Deck Officer: We need to hold them off until we can make the jump to hyperspace.

[ The Imperials nervously watch the elevator doors, seeing three white hexagons lighting up in succession. It is tense, and the Stormtroopers ready their weapons. Soon after the third hexagon lights up, the Mandalorians exit the elevator, shooting and demolishing the Stormtroopers in the hallway before them. ]

Deck Officer: Close the doors.

Stormtrooper: Sir?

Deck Officer: Close the doors!

[ The officer runs to hide behind a cargo crate in a panic, as the Mandalorians continue blasting through the other Stormtroopers. ]

Stormtrooper: Which one?

Deck Officer: All of them! All of them!

[ One of the Stormtroopers presses a button on a control panel, closing one of the doors. ]

Deck Officer: Close all of them!

[ Cut back to the cockpit, where the captain and the other two Imperial officers look confused. ]

Deck Officer (comm): Close all the doors!

[ Back with the others, Bo-Katan is able to shoot a few more Stormtroopers before the last doors close the Mandalorians out from the cargo bay. The Imperial deck officer sighs in immense relief, getting up from behind the crates of cargo and speaking back into the comlink. ]

Deck Officer: I think we have them trapped, sir.

[ Cut back to the cockpit. ]

Captain: Trapped them where?

[ Cut back to the cargo bay. ]

Deck Officer: In the cargo control area.

[ Cut back to the cockpit, where the Captain widens his eyes. ]

Captain: Where?

Deck Officer (comm): In the cargo control area-

[ We cut back to the cargo bay, as the deck officer and Stormtroopers are soon shot out of the back of the large freighter, flying down to the seas, screaming. As the alarms blare and the people scream through the comlinks, the two pilots in the cockpit look shocked, and the captain looks extremely annoyed. The security officer reluctantly turns on one of the comlinks. ]

Security Officer: Come in. Do you copy?

[ We cut to the cargo bay, where the Mandalorians are removing the lids off of large cargo bins, where there are sets of guns and other various weapons packed up tightly. ]

Security Officer (comm): Do you copy?

[ Bo-Katan, who has since take off her helmet, speaks through the comlink to the cockpit. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: I copy. Thanks for packing up all this gear so nicely.

[ Cut back to the cockpit. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze (comm): Imagine what a division of us can do...

[ Cut back to cargo bay. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: ...when we get our hands on whats inside these shiny little boxes.

[ Koska Reeves takes a large gun out of a box and looks it over. ]

Captain (comm): If you think youre going to escape with those weapons, you are sadly mistaken. Even if youve managed to jettison a few of those

[ Cut back to cockpit. ]

Captain: ...crates, we will comb the entire area until you are hunted down and killed.

[ Cut back to cargo bay. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Oh, were not jettisoning anything. Were taking the entire ship.

Din Djarin: What?

[ Koska Reeves looks back at the Mandalorian as shes examining a large rifle-like gun. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Put some tea on. Well be up in a minute.

[ Bo-Katan switches the comlink off, as the Mandalorian approaches her. ]

Din Djarin: This is more than I signed up for.

Bo-Katan Kryze: There is something I need, if I am to rule Mandalore. Something that was once mine. They know where it is, and soon, so will I. Regardless, we are taking the ship for the battles ahead.

Din Djarin: I got you your weapons. I have to return to my ship with the foundling.

Bo-Katan Kryze: If you want my help finding the Jedi, you will help me take this ship.

Din Djarin: Youre changing the terms of the deal.

Bo-Katan Kryze: This is the Way.

[ Bo-Katan smugly walks away from the Mandalorian. Axe Woves and Koska Reeves follow her, all three of them placing their helmets on as they walk off. The Mandalorian reluctantly walks after them. Back in the cockpit, a hologram is projected, however we cant see the persons face. ]

Man In Hologram: What is it, Captain?

Captain: Another pirate hijacking.

Man In Hologram : Were you able to eliminate them?

Captain: No. We need backup immediately.

Man In Hologram: Are these the same pirates that have attacked our other vessels?

Captain: They appear to be, sir.

Man In Hologram: How far have they gotten?

Captain: Theyve breached the cargo hold and taken everything but the bridge. We require immediate backup.

Man In Hologram: If theyve taken that much of the ship, Im afraid thats no longer an option. You know what to do.

[ The main Imperial pilot looks nervous, glancing over at his security officer comrade. The hologram is revealed to be of Moff Gideon, the nefarious man who is looking for the Child. ]

Moff Gideon: Long live the Empire.

Captain: Long live the Empire.

[ The Imperial captain quickly takes his blaster off of his belt and shoots the two piloting officers. They scream out in pain and fall to the ground, as the captain takes the security officers pilot chair, pushing the rest of his slumped body out of the way. The captain grabs the steering mechanism of the vessel, and flicks a few switches, soon pushing the steering mechanism forward. The ship begins to go downwards towards the sea. We cut to the Mandalorians inside stumbling around unsteadily, Bo-Katan grunting in frustration. The ship continues to rapidly fly down to the sea. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Theyre taking the ship down. Lets move!

[ The other Mandalorians follow her, their guns drawn, and they come to the final hallway leading up to the bridge. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Theres the bridge. Come on!

[ A relatively large contingent of Stormtroopers reveal themselves in front of the Mandalorians. ]

Stormtrooper: Blast them!

[ The Stormtroopers quickly begin shooting, and the four Mandalorians duck for cover on either side of the hallway. The red blaster fire is shooting out rapidly. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: How many troopers?

Axe Woves: Six to ten. Two with heavy repeating blasters.

Koska Reeves: Were losing altitude fast.

Bo-Katan Kryze: We need to move now.

Axe Woves: They have too much firepower!

Koska Reeves: Still dropping. Ten thousand.

[ The ship continues going down more and more towards the sea, and through the clouds. ]

Axe Woves: Well never make it to the bridge in time!

Koska Reeves: Nine thousand.

[ The Mandalorian looks over at the troopers at the end of the hallway with his thermal vision. ]

Koska Reeves: Eight thousand.

[ The Mandalorian quickly tucks his blaster away and activates two thermal detonators. ]

Koska Reeves: Seven thousand.

Din Djarin: Cover me.

[ The Mandalorian quickly runs out into the hallway, his beskar armor being hit constantly with the immense firepower. He stumbles around as he runs. The other Mandalorians begin to shoot after him at the Stormtroopers as well. The Mandalorian eventually falls to the ground, but is able to throw the two thermal detonators into the corridor with the Stormtroopers. They blow up quite quickly. The explosions shoot out through the corridors towards the Mandalorian. He ducks and covers as the flames shoot past him and soon dissipate. The other Mandalorians quickly run out as the Mandalorian hurriedly gets up. Axe Woves stays somewhat behind the others to guard them from behind. ]

Din Djarin: Come on!

[ As the Imperial captain continues driving the freighter towards the sea, the cockpit doors slide open, and the Mandalorian stumbles in. The captain is hurriedly pulled out of his seat by the Mandalorian, a seat which is soon occupied by the Mandalorian himself, while Koska Reeves gets in the other seat. Bo-Katan grabs the captain and pushes him up against the wall, holding the knife on her wrist to him. The Mandalorian and Koska strain to stabilize the ship. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Where is it?

Captain: Wheres what?

Bo-Katan Kryze: The Darksaber. Does he have it?

Captain: If youre asking, you already know.

[ The Mandalorian and Koska Reeves continue to try to stabilize the freighter. ]

Din Djarin: Easy. Easy.

[ Theyre able to set the freighter stabilized just before it hits the water, nearly crashing into another boat on the water with a large metal part sticking up from it. The transport begins to ascend higher into the air again. The Mandalorian and Koska Reeves begin panting, as the Mandalorian flicks a few switches. We cut back to Bo-Katan confronting the Imperial captain. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Ill let you live. But you will take me to him.

Captain: You might let me live, but he wont.

[ The Imperial captain quickly bites down on a capsule in his mouth that electrocutes him, and he falls to the floor, dead. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: No!

Koska Reeves: We have to go. He sent a distress signal.

Bo-Katan Kryze: Clear the atmosphere and prepare to jump.

[ The Mandalorian exits from his seat and prepares to leave the giant freighter. Bo-Katan confronts him. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Are you sure you wont join us?

Din Djarin: Theres something I need to do.

Bo-Katan Kryze: The offer stands if you change your mind.

Din Djarin: Where can I find the Jedi?

[ Bo-Katan removes her helmet and looks up at the Mandalorian. ]

Bo-Katan Kryze: Take the foundling to the city of Calodan on the forest planet of Corvus. There you will find Ahsoka Tano. Tell her you were sent by Bo-Katan. And thank you. Your bravery will not be forgotten. This is the Way.

Din Djarin: This is the Way.

[ The Mandalorian turns around and walks out of the cockpit, the doors sliding closed behind him. We cut to him exiting on the side rail, where he quickly jumps off, then proceeding to activate his jetpack and fly back to the Trask docks. We cut to back with the Child in the Frog Lady and Frog Mans residency. One of the couples tadpoles is in a small wooden bowl of water, and the Child is curiously playing with it, cooing. Three sharp knocks are heard on the door, and the Mandalorian comes in. ]

Din Djarin: Thank you for watching him. Okay, kid. Come on. Its time to go.

[ The Mandalorian picks up the Child, who begins squealing and crying, still wanting to stay with the tadpole. ]

Din Djarin: Let go. Come on, kid. (to Frog couple) Congratulations.

[ The Frog Man says something in Frog in response, as the Mandalorian exits with the Child. ]

Din Djarin: No, I have enough pets.

[ The door closes behind the Mandalorian and the Child as they exit. Once it is closed, the Frog Lady and the Frog Man bump noses lovingly and continue to play with their newborn child. Back at the docks, the Mandalorian approaches the Razor Crest, which has clearly been very poorly fixed up. Odd ropes and panels wrap around it, and are stuck to it. The Mon Calamari dock worker walks up next to the Mandalorian, his hands on his hips, as the Mandalorian looks at his ship in a bit of disbelief. ]

Din Djarin: I gave you a thousand credits, this was the best you could do?

[ Without a word, the dock worker holds out the data pad for the Mandalorian to pay. He reluctantly clicks two things, and the dock worker lowers the pad. The Mandalorian slowly approaches his ship. We cut to him walking into the cockpit, the doors sliding open. Fishnets are draped around, seemingly holding everything together. There is also rope and seaweed scattered around, tying various things together. The Mandalorian pushes a piece of netting aside as he steps into the cockpit. The doors close behind him, and he sets the Child in the passengers seat, sitting in the pilots one himself. He continues to look around in annoyance. ]

Din Djarin: Mon Calamari.

[ The Mandalorian flicks a few things to start up the ship, as the Child coos. ]

Din Djarin: Unbelievable.

[ The ship begins shakily leaving the docks, and it bounces around unpleasantly. The Mandalorian flips a few more switches as the ship takes off and he bounces a bit around. The Child notices a tan tentacled creature crawling up the ropes towards him. He watches it as it begins to descend down a rope right down to him. We see the odd view from the creatures multiple eyes, showing a pattern of the Child. The Mandalorian quickly wheels around and grabs the creature. The Child giggles and laughs a bit, as the landing gear of the ship is tucked away, and it is able to properly leave Trasks atmosphere. Small metal pieces fly off of it as it flies away. ]

Din Djarin: I finally know where Im taking you. But its gonna be a bumpy ride.

[ The Child sucks down the tentacle of the odd creature that the Mandalorian had just caught, as the Razor Crest flies out of Trasks atmosphere and back into space. It flies off into hyperspace, a sheet of metal detaching from it as it does, and spinning around in space for a bit after the ship has left. We then cut to black, and the credits start to roll. ]



Ep 12 - The Siege

Released on Disney+ on November 20, 2020

Plot:

The Mandalorian and the Child head to Nevarro for repairs for his ship, the Razor Crest, after the Mon Calamari repairs proved inadequate. They reunite with Greef Karga and Cara Dune there, who have since turned the planet around. Cara has assumed the position of Marshall, Greef has taken on the role of magistrate, assisted by Mythrol. In return for the repairs, The Mandalorian agrees to help destroy an old Imperial base on the other side of the planet. The Child is placed in new school built on Nevarro, and endeavours to steal macaron treats from a student.

The base, turns out to have more than just a skeleton crew and stormtroopers patrol the corridors. They deactivate the lava cooling system, so that the natural lava flows will destroy the base. During their escape, they come across a chamber filled with vats of what appear to be cloned bodies. The scientists in the chamber attempt to destroy the evidence. Mythrol uncovers a recording from Dr. Pershing that reveals he was using the blood of the Child, which contains a large Mcount to harvest the clones. Stormtroopers soon swarm the team and they are forced to escape before the lava overheats and destroys the base.

The Mandalorian flies from the base to retrieve his ship, using his jetpack, whilst Karga, Dune and Mythrol steal a stormtrooper transport. A chase ensues between the transport, driven by Dune, and speeder bikes manned by scout troopers. Greef Karga kills the last scout trooper, but TIE fighters launched from the base chase after them, disabling the transports cannon. The base soon explodes due to the overheating of the lava. As the TIEFighters close in on Dune, Karga and Mythrol, the Razor Crest appears and destroys the Imperials, Mando and the Child at the helm.

With his ship repaired and Nevarro secured, Mando heads for Corvus to track down Ahsoka Tano. The New Republic visit Karga to investigate the incident, with Captain Carson Teva noting something is brewing and we need to put a stop to it. Teva speaks with Dune, who reveals she was from Alderaan and lost everything after its destruction. An Imperial officer receives confirmation from one of the mechanics working for Greef Karga, that a tracking beacon has been placed on the Razor Crest. Moff Gideon is informed, and declares that they will be ready.

 

Transcript:

(SIGHS) All right, lets try this again. Okay, did you Do you have the wire?

(ALARM BEEPING)

No. Nothing.

(SIGHS) Hey

Oh. (CLEARS THROAT)

Okay. Did you get the wire out? The red wire?

Huh?

No, no, no. No, the red one. Show me the red wire. The red one.

(COOS)

Yes, good. Now, youre going to plug that red wire where the blue wire goes in the board.

(COOS)

Put the red wire where the blue wire goes in the board, okay? But dont let them touch.

(COOS)

You see where you took the blue one off? Yes, now put the red one

(GRUNTING)

No, dont put the blue one back. Put the red one where the blue one was. And put the blue one where the red one was. But be careful.

(COOING)

Theyre oppositely charged, so keep them away from each other. Make sure you hold them apart from No, hold them apart.

Oh! Uh-uh

(ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)

(SIGHS) Oh Are you okay?

(COUGHS)

(WHINING)

(SIGHS)

Well, it was worth a shot.

Theres no way were making it to Corvus in this shape.

(THE MANDALORIAN EXHALES)

I think we need to visit some friends for repairs. So, howd you like to go back to Nevarro?

(ALL SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)

Here. Count this out.

Hello little friend.

(SCREECHING)

Wont you be delicious.

(ALL ARGUING IN ALIEN LANGUAGE)

Thats my share!

No one touches nothing until we eat!

(SCREECHING)

(DISTANT CLATTERING)

Someones here.

Go see what that was.

(BOTH GRUNTING)

Its the Marshal!

(SNARLING)

(SIGHS HEAVILY)

(CHITTERING)

Hey! Okay. Oh. Oh Okay, little guy. No ones eating you today.

(CHITTERS)

Go on, youre free. Go on. Git.

(CONTINUES CHITTERING)

Okay, look. Here you go. Thats all I got. Now, I need to return all these things to the rightful owners.

THE MANDALORIAN

Chapter 12
THE SIEGE

(SCOFFS)

(ALARM BEEPING)

(ALARM STOPS)

(ALARM BEEPING)

(ALARM STOPS)

(RAZOR CREST SPUTTERING)

(METALLIC CREAKING)

GREEF KARGA: Looks like someone could use some repairs.

(THE MANDALORIAN GRUNTS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Hows my credit around here?

I think something could be arranged. Isnt that right, Marshal?

(THE CHILD COOS)

Im sure we can work somethin out.

Ill get my best people on it. Hey, fellas! Lets fix this mans ship! I want it as good as new.

(SPEAKS ALIEN LANGUAGE)

And you, come here, little one! (CHUCKLING) Has Mando been taking good care of you, huh? Have you been takin good care o him?

(THE CHILD COOS)

Yeah? Yeah! He said yeah! Oh, yeah. (CHUCKLING) Yes. Come on. Yeah. Yeah, look at you.

(INDISTINCT CHATTERING)

THE MANDALORIAN: Looks like you two have been busy.

GREEF KARGA: I myself have been steeped in clerical work. Marshal Dune here is to be thanked for cleaning up the town.

Your ships not lookin too good.

I had a run-in with the New Republic.

GREEF KARGA: They should leave the Outer Rim alone. If the Empire couldnt settle it, what makes them think they can? Here we are.

THE MANDALORIAN: Im surprised to see this place is still standing.

Wait till you see inside.

FEMALE PROTOCOL DROID: Who can name one of the five major trade routes in the galaxy? Anyone? How about the Corellian Run?

BOY 1: The Hydian Way?

Yes, the Hydian Way. That is correct.

A school?

Things have changed a lot around here.

Well leave the little one here so we can talk business.

Wait. Wherever I go, he goes.

Mando, please. Where were going, you dont wanna take a child. Trust me.

Hell be fine here. You have my word.

be transported from the Outer Rim to as far away as the Core Worlds.

(COOS)

(STUDENTS CHATTERING)

However, there are several other regions within our galaxy. They are the Mid Rim

Come on.

the Expansion Region, the Inner Rim, the Colonies, Core, and Deep Core. All right, class. Settle down. Back to the lesson, shall we? The capital of the Old Republic was within the Core on a planet called Coruscant. The capital of the New Republic

(COOS)

is currently on the planet Chandrila, which is also within the Core region. So, back to the start.

(COOS)

The system also contains the Akkadese Maelstrom. The Maelstrom surrounds Kessel and its three moons. As you learned yesterday

(WHISPERS) No!

there are many systems in this galaxy.

(WHINES)

How many orbits are in the Kessel system? Do we at least remember that?

BOY 2: Ooh, I know! Uh Two?

FEMALE PROTOCOL DROID: Yes, very good. As the third moon of Kessel rotates the outer planet, you see the moon here travels in its same orbit. Now who can track the path of the orbit here? Do I have any volunteers? Anyone?

(COOS)

Theres no registration on the ship, but Im pretty sure it belongs

GREEF KARGA: I believe you two have met.

THE MANDALORIAN: Im surprised to see you here.

Right back at ya.

Mythrol heres taken care of my books since he was a pollywog. But then he disappeared one day after a bit of creative accounting.

Magistrate Karga was generous enough to let me work off my debt. Thank you, by the way.

Three hundred and fifty years, but whos counting?

Well, if he runs off on you again, let me know.

Let me assure you, I do not wanna spend any more time in carbonite. Still cant see outta my left eye.

CARA: Can we talk business?

THE MANDALORIAN: Im only here for repairs.

Whichll take a while. Which means youll have free time on your hands, right? And we could really use your help.

Help how?

This is Nevarro. Were here. This entire areas a green zone. Completely safe. But over on this side is the problem.

Its an old Imperial base.

Its where all those troops came from when we defeated Moff Gideon. This base has been here since the Imperial expansion. Its got a skeleton crew, but for some reason, it hasnt been abandoned.

Theres a lot o heavy weaponry in that place the black market would love to dismantle and get their hands on.

And you wanna mop up the last of the Imperial force before they do.

Mando, I just want them off my planet. If we could take out that one last base, Nevarro would be completely safe. We could be a trade anchor for the entire sector.

And the planet would finally be free.

What are we looking at?

The whole base is powered by a reactor.

We sneak in, overload the reactor, and get the hell outta there.

THE MANDALORIAN: Lets be fast. And keep the speeder running.

There it is, right there. You see it?

How close you want me to drop you off?

How bout the front door?

Its a little close for a civilian, dont you think?

I got two choices for ya. You take us in and I knock a hundred years off your debt.

Or?

Or I leave ya out here in the lava flats to walk home with whatevers left in your humidity vest.

Its not much of a choice, is it?

MYTHROL: All right. We cant go any further than this.

GREEF KARGA: Lets go.

Controls are useless. Theyre melted.

Well, its probably not rated for lava.

Imperial trash.

All right, Im headed back. Hit me up on the comm, we could set up a rendezvous time.

You park your gills right there until I say otherwise.

Im startin to dehydrate, boss.

Okay, how does 30 more years off your debt sound?

Can you at least be quick about it?

You wanna be quick? Grab the flange cutter and help us out.

(GROANS)

(LANDSPEEDER BEEPS)

MYTHROL: Okay, fine. I dont like leaving my speeder like this, just so you know.

Come on, hurry it up.

MYTHROL: All right, Im coming.

GREEF KARGA: Hurry up.

(ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)

Hold tight.

How long is this gonna take?

Look, lady, this is rated for light plumbing and such. Youre lucky I even packed it at all.

CARA: (SIGHS) Dank farrik.

(STORMTROOPER SCREAMING)

(THUDS)

(DOOR BEEPS)

Are you comin in or what?

Ill take my chances here, but thank you.

Well, when the lava tide comes in, give us a holler. Well drop you a rope.

Empty base, huh?

(WIND HOWLING)

GREEF KARGA: The reactor should be set in the heat shaft. If we drain the cooling lines, this whole base will go up in a matter of minutes.

MYTHROL: Look. Its a mint Trexler Marauder. We can get a lot for this on the black market.

THE MANDALORIAN: And its gonna get vaporized like the rest of this base. Now, lets go.

MYTHROL: (SIGHS) Such a waste.

Shuttle bay, this is command. Shuttle bay, the security feed just went down. Can you check your relay hub?

(STATIC)

Shuttle bay? Shuttle bay, this is

(CHOKING)

(CLICKING BUTTONS)

This will come in handy.

THE MANDALORIAN: I found the heat shaft. Lets go. The access corridor should be right past this junction.

STORMTROOPER 1: Mustve blown a transformer over there.

STORMTROOPER 2: All right. Well check it out.

STORMTROOPER 1: Section-Four? TK-1-4-7.

STORMTROOPER 2: Scan control has been unreliable since last rotation. Send a technical crew to check it out.

THE MANDALORIAN: There, Mythrol, slice that door.

GREEF KARGA: Use the code cylinder.

MYTHROL: Whoa!

GREEF KARGA: Yeah, whoa is right. Thats it. Get on the reactor controls, drain the coolant lines. Well watch the doors.

Me?

Yes, you!

Im afraid o heights. And heat. And lava.

How bout if I put ya back in carbonite? Get over there!

Theres no guard rail on this.

Come on!

(MYTHROL GRUNTING)

Oh, boy.

(KEYPAD BUZZES)

GREEF KARGA: Come on, hurry up, hurry up. Hurry up!

(KEYPAD BUZZES)

(STAMMERING)

(BEEPING)

MYTHROL: Oh, dear.

(ALARM BEEPING)

All right, shes gonna blow. Lets go! Lets get outta here!

CARA: How long do we have?

Ten minutes at the most.

(ALARM BLARING)

STORMTROOPER: 5-3-8-7 and 5-3-8-9, follow me. Call in reinforcements!

IMPERIAL SCIENTIST: Hurry up, purge the drives. Destroy it!

Ahh!

(SCREAMS)

What the

I thought you said this was a forward operating base.

I thought it was.

CARA: No, this isnt a military operation. This is a lab. We need to get into the system and figure out whats going on.

What about the reactor

Do it! Do it.

THE MANDALORIAN: I dont like this.

Pardon me.

DR. PERSHING: Replicated the results of the subsequent trials, which also resulted in catastrophic failure. There were promising effects for an entire fortnight, but then, sadly, the body rejected the blood. I highly doubt well find a donor with a higher M-count, though. I recommend that we suspend all experimentation. I fear that the volunteer will meet the same regrettable fate if we proceed with the transfusion. Unfortunately, we have exhausted our initial supply of blood. The Child is small, and I was only able to harvest a limited amount without killing him. If these experiments are to continue as requested, we would again require access to the donor. I will not disappoint you again, Moff Gideon.

THE MANDALORIAN: This must be an old transmission. Moff Gideon is dead.

No. This recordings three days old.

THE MANDALORIAN: If Gideons alive then

STORMTROOPER 1: Over there!

(STORMTROOPER 1 GROANS)

(SCREAMS)

STORMTROOPER 2: We have them!

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

I need to get the kid.

Jet back, youre faster that way. Well head to the speeder and meet you in town.

GREEF KARGA: Come on, lets go!

When did you say this place is gonna blow again?

STORMTROOPER: Theyre on the move!

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

(MYTHROL YELPING)

GREEF KARGA: Lets go!

STORMTROOPER: We think they may be moving to the Hey!

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

(GROANS)

STORMTROOPER: This way!

(BOTH GROAN)

(GROANS)

(SCREAMING)

(BEEPS)

(BEEPING)

STORMTROOPER: All right, men, load your weapons. There they are! Blast em!

MYTHROL: Were trapped!

Is that so? Cover me!

What does she think shes doing?

All right, baby girl, lets see what you got.

What are you guys waiting for, an invitation? Lets move!

Go! Go, go, go, go, go! Go!

Youre not considering going over

Hang on!

Oh, no, no, no, no!

(ALL SCREAMING)

(ALL GRUNT)

(ALL PANTING)

MYTHROL: Wait. Was that my speeder

(YELPS)

(GRUNTS)

Man the guns.

Copy that.

(SCREAMS)

One down.

Ive lost him!

(MYTHROL YELPING)

(GREEF KARGA AND CARA GRUNT)

(SCREAMING)

Whoo!

(GRUNTS)

(BEEPING)

(LAUGHING)

Yes! We did it!

Headed home, boss.

(BEEPING)

That may have been premature.

Take evasive! I got this!

(GRUNTS)

What is going on back there?

You wanna come back here and try this? Be my guest!

Cant you get this thing to go any faster?

(GRUNTING) Come on.

(SCREAMS)

(GRUNTS)

Were almost there!

Yes! Yes!

(MYTHROL LAUGHS)

Hang on, kid.

(COOS)

(THE CHILD GIGGLES EXCITEDLY)

(WHOOPS)

(ENGINE POWERING UP)

(GIGGLING)

(SCREAMS)

Yeah!

(BOTH WHOOPING)

Yes! (WHOOPS)

Yeah!

(EXHALES)

Not too bad, huh, kid? Oh, boy.

GREEF KARGA: That was some pretty impressive flying, Mando. What do I owe ya?

With the repairs, lets call it even.

(WHINES)

(CHUCKLES)

Can I at least buy you a drink?

THE MANDALORIAN: Sorry. I have some onboard maintenance I gotta take care of. Then we gotta hit the road before Gideon catches wise.

Well, good luck flying, my friend.

So, is there anything else you can remember before the base exploded?

No.

How long after the Razor Crest jumped out

(SCOFFS)

I never said anything about a Razor Crest.

Your transponder log has a

Transponder log. Come on, give me a break. The control droid cant tell apart anything pre-Empire. This isnt Coruscant.

Do you have anything else to add?

Not that I can think of, Officer. But if somethin does come to mind, Ill be sure to send you a gram. That is, if youre ever out this far again.

What?

(CREATURE CHITTERING)

You did a hell of a job cleanin up the system. According to records, youre quite a soldier. We could really use you.

Im not a joiner, Blue.

Theres something going on out here. They dont believe it on the Core Worlds, but its true. These arent isolated incidents. They need to be stopped before its too late. But we cant do it without local support.

Says here youre from Alderaan. I served during Alderaan. Did you lose anyone?

I lost everyone.

Im sorry for your loss.

(SYSTEM BEEPS)

What do you have for me?

The device has been planted, as you requested.

Good. Youll be well-rewarded in the new era.

OFFICER: Moff Gideon. The tracking beacon has been installed on the Razor Crest.

Does he still have the asset?

Yes. Our source confirmed it.

And we will be ready.



Chapter 14: The Tragedy

Released on Disney+ on December 4, 2020

Plot:

The Mandalorian arrives with Grogu on Tython, and finds the ancient temple on top of a mountain. He seats Grogu at the center so that he may choose his path. Grogu meditates, and a protective Force field appears around him. Boba Fett arrives with the mercenary Fennec Shand, whose life he saved on Tatooine, and demands the return of his Mandalorian armor.[a] Following a tense confrontation, the Mandalorian agrees to trade the armor for the safety of Grogu. Two Imperial troop carriers arrive, disgorging stormtroopers who attempt to capture Grogu. Honoring their agreement, Fett, Shand, and the Mandalorian join forces to harry the advancing stormtroopers, inflicting heavy casualties.

Boba Fett retrieves his armor using it to wipe out many stormtroopers before firing a rocket that destroys the fleeing troop ships. Moff Gideon arrives in an Imperial light cruiser and destroys the Mandalorians ship Razor Crest from high overhead. Gideon sends out four Dark Troopers, who fly down and capture Grogu and take back to the cruiser. Fett and Shand agree to help the Mandalorian save Grogu to honor their debt. The Mandalorian seeks the now New Republic Marshal Cara Dunes help in breaking out the criminal Mayfeld in order to track Gideon and rescue Grogu. Impressed with Grogus Force powers, Moff Gideon shows Grogu the Darksaber and has a stormtrooper stun and shackle him. After, Gideon informs Dr. Pershing that they have the donor.

Transcript:

(BABBLING)

THE MANDALORIAN: Grogu.

(COOS)

(CHUCKLES)

(COOS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Grogu?

(CHUCKLES)

THE MANDALORIAN: Give me the ball.

(GRUNTS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Grogu, give me the ball. Come on.

(GRUNTS)

(GROGU SQUEALS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Okay, here we go.

(COOS)

THE MANDALORIAN: You can have it, just like before. Grogu, come on. You can have it. Come on.

(COOING)

THE MANDALORIAN: Dank farrik! Hey, no. Im not mad at you. You did good. I just When the nice lady said you had training, I just

(SIGHS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Youre very special, kid.

(COOS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Were gonna find that place you belong and theyre gonna take real good care of you.

(BABBLES)

(BEEPING)

THE MANDALORIAN: This is Tython. Thats where were gonna try and find you a Jedi.

(GROGU GRUNTS)

But you have to agree to go with them if they want you to. Understand? Plus, I cant train you. Youre too powerful. Dont you wanna learn more of that Jedi stuff?

(GRUNTS)

I agreed to take you back to your own kind, so thats what I need to do. You understand, right? Looks like thats the magic rock Im supposed to take you to down there.

(GRUNTS)

(COOS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Sorry, buddy. I cant land on the top. Too small. Were gonna have to travel the last stretch with the windows down.

(GROGU WHOOPING)

THE MANDALORIAN: Well, I guess this is it. Does this look Jedi to you? I guess you sit right here. Okay. Here we go.

(COOS)

THE MANDALORIAN: This is the seeing stone, are you seeing anything?

(COOS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Or are they supposed to see you? Maybe theres some kind of control or something.

(COOS)

(SIGHS)

THE MANDALORIAN: Oh, come on, kid. Ahsoka told me all I had to do was get you here and youd do the rest.

(COOS)

(SHIP APPROACHING)

THE MANDALORIAN: Times up, kid. We gotta get out of here. We dont have time for this. We got to get (GRUNTS)

(BREATHING HEAVILY)

Hey! Snap out of it, kid!

We got to get out of here!

Ill see if I can buy you some time.

Can you please hurry up?

BOBA FETT: Ive been tracking you, Mandalorian.

THE MANDALORIAN: Are you Jedi? Or are you after the Child?

BOBA FETT: Im here for the armor.

THE MANDALORIAN: If you want my armor, youll have to peel it off my dead body.

BOBA FETT: I dont want your armor. I want my armor that you got from Cobb Vanth back on Tatooine. It belongs to me.

THE MANDALORIAN: Are you Mandalorian?

BOBA FETT: Im a simple man making his way through the galaxy. Like my father before me.

THE MANDALORIAN: Did you take the Creed?

BOBA FETT: I give my allegiance to no one.

THE MANDALORIAN: The beskar belongs to the Mandalorians.

BOBA FETT: It was looted from us during the Purge. The armor was my fathers. Now its mine.

THE MANDALORIAN: Whats to stop me from dropping you right where you stand?

BOBA FETT: Because I have a sharpshooter up on that ridge with a locked scope that will unload by the time my body hits the ground.

THE MANDALORIAN: Im the one wearing beskar. As soon as I see that muzzle flash, youre both dead.

BOBA FETT: I didnt mean she was going to shoot you. My friends locked onto that little companion of yours up on the henge.

SNIPER: And if you remember, I dont miss.

THE MANDALORIAN: Fennec?

FENNEC SHAND: You have a keen ear, Mando.

THE MANDALORIAN: You point that gun away from the kid or Ill drop you both where you stand.

Lets all put down our weapons, have a chat.

Theres no need for bloodshed.

Tell her to drop the gun.

After you put down the jetpack.

Same time.

Stand down.

(THE MANDALORIAN GRUNTS)

You look like youve just seen a ghost.

You were dead.

BOBA FETT: She was left for dead on the sands of Tatooine, as was I.

But fate sometimes steps in to rescue the wretched.

In my case, Boba Fett was that fate. And I am now in his service.

BOBA FETT: I want my armor back.

THE MANDALORIAN: It goes against the Mandalorian Creed.

BOBA FETT: The armor was given to my father, Jango, by your forebears. In exchange, I guarantee the safety of the Child, as well as your own. The bounty on your little friend has risen significantly. You can buy ten suits of armor for the price on its head. Id say were offering a fair deal under the circumstances.

(SHIP APPROACHING)

THE MANDALORIAN: (GRUNTS) Time to go, kid!

(GRUNTING)

(YELPS)

STORMTROOPER 1: Go, go! Advance and take (GROANS)

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

(GROANS)

Up top. Move out!

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

STORMTROOPER 2: Flank left and from above.

Sir, theres too much fire!

Flank them, you idiot!

(GROANS)

Up top! Get up there!

(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)

(STORMTROOPER GROANS)

(SCREAMING)

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

(BOBA FETT GRUNTS)

(STORMTROOPER GROANING)

(GROANS)

(GASPS)

(PANTING)

(GRUNTING) One, two

(YELLING)

STORMTROOPER: Get back! Get

(ALL SCREAM)

(SCREAMS)

Go, go!

(BOTH GRUNTING)

STORMTROOPER: No.

(GRUNTS)

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

(BREATHING HEAVILY)

(STORMTROOPER GROANS)

(GROANING)

STORMTROOPER: Flank left. Move out!

THE MANDALORIAN: Thats it, kid.

We got to get out of here!

(GRUNTING)

(YELPS)

Okay, Im gonna protect you.

Just stay there. Ill be back soon.

(BREATHING HEAVILY)

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

STORMTROOPER: Give yourselves up!

We dont want you, we want the Child.

(ALL GROANING)

THE MANDALORIAN: Okay, lets move in.

(THE MANDALORIAN GRUNTS)

This isnt looking good.

THE MANDALORIAN: Ive seen worse.

You can get out of here. I owe you from last time.

We have a deal.

(BEEPING)

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

(GROANING)

(STORMTROOPERS CONTINUE GROANING)

STORMTROOPER: Back to the ship! Back to the ship!

Go! Go!

THE MANDALORIAN: Nice shot.

BOBA FETT: I was aiming for the other one.

Better get to your ship.

THE MANDALORIAN: The kid!

OFFICER: Direct hit.

Have the dark troopers been engaged?

Momentarily.

(WHIMPERS)

FENNEC SHAND: Theyve got the baby.

Dont let them get away!

BOBA FETT: Affirmative.

I have a lock.

THE MANDALORIAN: Stop him.

I dont want the Child hurt.

FENNEC SHAND: Abort pursuit. Disengage.

Do not harm the Child.

BOBA FETT: Copy. Ill do a loose follow, see where theyre headed.

Theyre back.

FENNEC SHAND: Who?

BOBA FETT: The Empire.

Theyre back.

FENNEC SHAND: That cant be.

The Outer Rim is under the jurisdiction of the New Republic.

BOBA FETT: This isnt a spice dream.

I can see the Imperial cruiser with my own eyes.

Heading down.

(FENNEC SHAND SIGHS)

THE MANDALORIAN: This is all that survived.

Beskar.

I want you to take a look at something. My chain code has been encoded in this armor for 25 years. You see, this is me. Boba Fett. This is my father, Jango Fett.

THE MANDALORIAN: Your father was a foundling.

BOBA FETT: Yes. He even fought in the Mandalorian Civil Wars.

THE MANDALORIAN: Then that armor belongs to you.

I appreciate its return.

THE MANDALORIAN: Then our deal is complete.

Not quite.

THE MANDALORIAN: How so?

We agreed in exchange for the return of my armor, we will ensure the safety of the Child.

THE MANDALORIAN: The Childs gone.

Until he is returned to you safely, we are in your debt.

THE MANDALORIAN: Cara Dune, Marshal of the New Republic.

I heard rumors you might have gone legit.

I wouldnt go that far.

I need your help.

Name it.

I need you to locate someone in the prison registry.

Lets see what I can do.

THE MANDALORIAN: Ex-Imperial sharpshooter, last name Mayfeld.

Apprehended near the Dilestri system on a derelict prison ship.

CARA: Migs Mayfeld.

Serving 50 years in the Karthon Chop Fields for springing a prisoner himself.

Accessory to the death of a New Republic officer.

Huh. Sounds like a real piece of work.

What do you want with him?

I need to spring him to help me locate Moff Gideons light cruiser.

You know how I feel about the Empire.

But these stripes mean there are rules I need to follow.

They have the kid.

(STORMTROOPERS GROANING)

(BOTH GROANING)

(CHOKING)

(CHOKING)

STORMTROOPER: Set to stun.

Wait.

(BOTH GROANING)

(BOTH YELPING)

(BREATHING HEAVILY)

(STORMTROOPER GROANING)

Youve gotten very good with that.

But it makes you oh-so sleepy.

Have you ever seen one of these?

From years past?

(CHUCKLING) Oh, uh-uh-uh.

Youre not ready to play with such things.

Liable to put an eye out with one of these.

Looks like you could use a nice, long sleep.

(GRUNTING)

(GROANS)

Put it in shackles.

When we come out of hyperspace, send an encrypted message to Dr. Pershing.

Let him know we have got our donor.

Yes, sir.


Chapter 15: The Believer

You have something I want. It means more to me than you will ever know. THE MANDALORIAN: The Child is gone. Until he is returned to you safely, we are in your debt. THE MANDALORIAN: Cara Dune, Marshal of the New Republic. I need you to locate someone in the prison registry. Ex-Imperial sharpshooter, last name Mayfeld. Serving years in the Karthon Chop Fields. Accessory to the death of a New Republic officer. Get that blaster out of my face, Mando! THE MANDALORIAN: Realize what you'll bring down on us? You think I care about that? - Get that blaster out of my face. - THE MANDALORIAN: I can't do that. Crazy Twi. (ALARM BLARING) No! (MACHINERY WHIRRING) DROID: Inmate three-four-six-six-seven. Inmate three-four-six-six-seven. (GROANS) What? What? DROID: Inmate three-four-six-six-seven, descend and receive new instructions. Can't you see I'm busy? Inmate three-four-six-six-seven, please salute Marshal Dune. I remand prisoner number three-four-six-six-seven to my custody. Affirmative. Inmate three-four-six-six-seven, please follow Marshal Dune to transport. Somebody gonna tell me what's going on? Let's go! I've got a job for you. DROID: Inmate three-four-six-six-seven, please follow Marshal Dune. Wait, where is she takin' me? Inmate three-four-six-six-seven, you have three seconds to comply with your new directive. Okay! All right, all right. Hey! You gonna tell me where you're takin' me? Hello? I mean, it's a common courtesy, a common courtesy to tell somebody where it is that you're takin' 'em. I don't think that's so hard to ask, do you? Oh. You know, for a second, I thought you were this other guy. THE MANDALORIAN: Mayfeld. Hey, Mando. Long time. What, you came here to kill me? All you need to know is I bent a lot of rules to bring you along. Why am I so lucky? Because you're Imperial. Hey, that was a long time ago, all right? THE MANDALORIAN: You still know your Imperial clearances and protocols, don't you? (SIGHS SOFTLY) We need coordinates for Moff Gideon's cruiser. Moff Gideon? (SCOFFS) Yeah, forget it. Just take me back to the scrapyard. I'm not doin' that. They have his kid. The little green guy? Yeah, "The little green guy." So... I help you guys get him back, you guys let me go? That's not how this works. Well, then what's in it for me? You get a better view. All right, but here's the thing. I can't get those coordinates unless I have access to an internal Imperial terminal. I believe there's one on Morak. THE MANDALORIAN: Morak? There's nothing on Morak. It's a secret Imperial mining hub, okay? If you can get me in there, I can get you the coordinates. THE MANDALORIAN: Fett, punch in the coordinates to Morak. BOBA FETT: Copy that. I did an initial scan of the planet. This is what you're talkin' about, right? Yeah, that's the refinery right there. Wonder what they're refining in there. Looks like rhydonium. Highly volatile and explosive. Yeah, kinda like this one, huh. (CHUCKLES) They have anti-aircraft cannons protecting it. And a platoon of security forces. THE MANDALORIAN: So we go in quiet. Let's go get a closer look. MAYFELD: I'm not gonna need long inside, so once I get the coordinates, you guys gotta get me the hell out of there. BOBA FETT: You get to the roof. I'll drop in and pull you out. All right. Mayfeld and I will swap out for the drivers in the tunnel. As much as I'd like to take a road trip with Rebel-dropper here, that's not gonna work. Oh, yeah? Why's that? Well, because these Remnant bases are set up and run by ex-ISB. If you get scanned and your genetic signature shows up on any New Republic register, you're gonna be detected, and it's guns out. You sure do know a lot about Imperial Remnants. If you wanna accuse me of something, then just say it. THE MANDALORIAN: We don't have time. Fennec will go. No, I'm wanted by the ISB. I'll trip the alarm, too. THE MANDALORIAN: Fett? BOBA FETT: Let's just say they might recognize my face. MAYFELD: Great, so it's me goin' in alone. CARA: No way. The minute he gets inside, he'll tip 'em off. He'll be a hero. MAYFELD: Hey. This wasn't my idea. I'm doin' you guys a favor. CARA: Deal's off. I'm takin' him back. THE MANDALORIAN: I'll go. Hey, buddy, I might be good at fast-talking, but I don't think I can explain away a guy in a Mando suit to Imperial guards. So, unless you're gonna take off that helmet, it's gonna be me goin' in alone. Or say goodbye to your little green friend. THE MANDALORIAN: You're not going alone. I'm coming with you. But I won't be showing my face. PILOT : Refinery, this is Juggernaut Five entering tunnel T- . WOMAN: (OVER COMMS) Copy that, Juggernaut Five. Juggernaut Four has reached the north exit. You're all clear. (MAYFELD GRUNTS) PILOT : What the... (ALL GRUNTING) (BREATHING HEAVILY) Oh, my God, this guy reeked. His gloves are still wet. Ugh! (CHUCKLING) Look at this. Oh, the shame. Now, that right there is worth the price of admission. Wish I could say it looked good on you, but I'd be lying. Just make sure you take out the rooftop gunners, or we're never getting out of here. We got you. THE MANDALORIAN: Take care of this. Keep it safe. I will. Hey, guys. Still on the clock. What would they say on Mandalore? It's a shame you're not comin' along with us. You got such a sunny disposition. Can't imagine how much fun you are in one of these. What's goin' on here? Power coil, motivator... Oh, there we... - (ENGINE WHIRRING) - Ah, there we go. There we go! And we are off. Hey, how's it feel? Huh? I mean, c'mon, man, you still get to wear a helmet, right? All right, you know what? I'm takin' this thing off. I can't see anything. I don't know how you people wear those things. And by "you people," I do mean Mandalorians. Phase one, complete. We're in. BOBA FETT: (OVER COMMS) Copy. Standing by. Feels better when it's off. MAN : (OVER COMMS) Juggernaut Four, you're running hot. Be sure to watch your cargo heat limits and speed. PILOT : Copy that, Three. We hit a couple bumps. Thanks for the heads-up. THE MANDALORIAN: Don't worry about the rhydonium. As long as you drive steady, you'll get us to the refinery. (HORN BLARES) WOMAN : Go, go! - MAN: Out of the road. Go! - WOMAN : Get to safety! Yeah. Empire, New Republic. It's all the same to these people. Invaders on their land is all we are. (INDISTINCT CHATTER) MAYFELD: I'm just sayin', somewhere someone in this galaxy is ruling and others are being ruled. I mean, look at your race. Do you think all those people that died in wars fought by Mandalorians actually had a choice? So how are they any different than the Empire? (SCOFFS) If you were born on Mandalore, you believe one thing, if you're born on Alderaan, you believe somethin' else. But guess what? Neither one of 'em exist anymore. Hey, I'm just a realist. I'm a survivor, just like you. THE MANDALORIAN: Let's get one thing straight. You and I are nothing alike. I don't know. Seems to me like your rules start to change when you get desperate. I mean, look at ya. You said you couldn't take your helmet off, and now you got a stormtrooper one on, so what's the rule? Is it that you can't take off your Mando helmet, or you can't show your face? 'Cause there is a difference. Look, I'm just sayin', we're all the same. Everybody's got their lines they don't cross until things get messy. As far as I'm concerned, if you can make it through your day and still sleep at night, you're doin' better than most. PILOT : (OVER COMMS) Control, this is Juggernaut Three. We're comin' up on some route interference. Control, control! We need a new... (SCREAMS) What was that? WOMAN: Please stand by for reroute. (DISTANT EXPLOSIONS) Juggernaut Four has been destroyed. "Destroyed"? THE MANDALORIAN: The rhydonium is still stable. WOMAN: Juggernaut Five, maintain speed and course. Proceed with caution. - Re-routing course, stand by. - "Proceed with caution"? Is she serious? PILOT : Control, this is Juggernaut Three. Requesting... Abort! Abort! (SCREAMING) (MAYFELD GRUNTING) (PIRATES SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE) What the hell was that? THE MANDALORIAN: Pirates. Keep driving. I'll take care of it. (SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE) Are you seriously shooting a blaster near rhydonium? - (THE MANDALORIAN SIGHS) - (PIRATES SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE) THE MANDALORIAN: They've thermal detonators. - MAYFELD: Terrific. - Just keep it steady. MAYFELD: Get these guys off us! Get 'em off us! Ah! (CHUCKLES AND GRUNTS) (PIRATES SCREAM) - (GRUNTING) - (ALARM BLARING) - They're trying to blow the rhydonium. - You think? You should've left me in prison! (PIRATES YELLING IN ALIEN LANGUAGE) (ALL YELLING) - (GRUNTS) - (SHOUTS IN ALIEN LANGUAGE) (BLASTER CLICKING) (PIRATES YELLING) (ALL GRUNTING) (PIRATE SCREAMING) (THUDDING) - (SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE) - (THE MANDALORIAN GRUNTING) (PIRATE SCREAMS) (YELLING IN ALIEN LANGUAGE) THE MANDALORIAN: Mayfeld! Pick it up. Drive faster! (PIRATES SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE) (ALARM BLARING) I don't think faster's a good idea! THE MANDALORIAN: What are you doing? (ALARM STOPS) (PIRATE SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE) (PIRATES YELLING AND GROWLING) (ALL GRUNTING) (PIRATE YELPING) (THERMAL DETONATOR BEEPING) (SPEAKS ALIEN LANGUAGE) (ALL GRUNTING) (PIRATES YELLING AND SCREAMING) (ALL SCREAMING) (RATTLING) Uh, Mando, I gotta stop. I can't cross at this speed. (GROANING AND PANTING) (PIRATES YELLING IN ALIEN LANGUAGE) (THERMAL DETONATORS BEEPING) (PIRATES LAUGHING AND SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE) (SIGHS AND GRUNTS) (PIRATES YELLING) - Whoo! - (PIRATES SCREAMING) STORMTROOPER LEADER: Go! Go! Stay on high alert! - Fire! On your right! - (PIRATES SCREAMING) (THE MANDALORIAN GROANING) Never thought you'd be happy to see stormtroopers. STORMTROOPER : Here they are. They made it. - STORMTROOPER : Yes! - (STORMTROOPERS CHEERING) - STORMTROOPER : Glory of the Empire! - (CHEERING CONTINUES) STORMTROOPER : There we go! Okay. All we gotta do is find a terminal. MAN: Ya did it! SHORETROOPER: Bringing glory to the Empire! MAYFELD: It's probably in the officers' mess. (INDISTINCT CHATTER) STORMTROOPER : I can't believe they pulled that off. (INDISTINCT CHATTER) There it is. - Okay. - THE MANDALORIAN: Good luck. (INDISTINCT CHATTER) - I can't go in there. - THE MANDALORIAN: Why not? - That's Valin Hess. - Who? It's Valin Hess. I used to serve under him. - Will he recognize you? - MAYFELD: I don't know. I was just a field operative, but I'm not takin' the chance. It's over. Let's just do this quick and we can get out of here. I can't do it, okay? We have to abort. I'm sorry. No. I can't. If we don't get those coordinates, I'll lose the kid forever. - Give me the data stick. - It's not gonna work. In order to access the network, the terminal has to scan your face. Let's go. Give it to me. AUTOMATED VOICE: Error, error. Facial scan incomplete. Ten seconds to system shutdown. Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two... Facial scan complete. (SYSTEM WHIRRING) Trooper! - Hey, trooper. - (SYSTEM BEEPS) Pay attention when a superior addresses you. What's your designation? Transport crew. What? My designation is transport copilot. VALIN HESS: No, son. What's your TK number? - My TK number is... - Uh-huh. This is my Commanding Officer TK- , sir. I'm Imperial Combat Assault Transport Lieutenant TK- , sir. I'm afraid you'll have to speak up to him a little bit since his vessel lost pressure in Taanab. (LOUDLY) What's your name, Officer? We just call him Brown Eyes. Isn't that right, Officer? Let's go fill out those TPS reports, so we can go recharge the power coils. VALIN HESS: You're not dismissed. You the tank troopers that delivered the shipment of rhydonium? - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir. Well, you two managed to be the only transport today to deliver their shipment. Come with me, hmm? Let's get a drink, Brown Eyes. CARA: We'll have to take out those cannons if Boba's gonna get close enough to lift 'em outta there. FENNEC SHAND: Shouldn't be a problem. You concentrate on the troopers, I'll take the cannons. I wonder what's takin' them so long. VALIN HESS: So what shall we toast to, boys? I can blather on about "To health" or "To success," but I'd like to do somethin' a little less rote. Where you from, Brown Eyes? How 'bout a toast to Operation Cinder? Now there's a man who knows his history. No, I don't just know it. I lived it. I was in Burnin Konn. - Burnin Konn? - MAYFELD: Mmm. That was a hard day. I had to make many unpleasant decisions. Yes, you did. Entire city gone in moments, along with everybody in it. We lost our whole division that day. Man, that was like - , people. Yep. All heroes of the Empire. Yeah. And all dead. VALIN HESS: Well, it's a small sacrifice for the greater good, son. Depends on who you ask, don't you think? What you gettin' at, trooper? All those people, the ones who died, was it good for them? Hmm? Their families? The guys I served with? Civilians, those poor mud scuffers, died defendin' their homes, fighting for freedom. Was it good for 'em? But we've outlasted them, son. They're eatin' themselves alive. The New Republic is in complete disarray, and we grow stronger. You see, with the rhydonium you've delivered, we can create havoc that's gonna make Burnin Konn just pale by comparison. And then they're gonna turn to us once again. You see, boys, everybody thinks they want freedom, but what they really want is order. And when they realize that, they're gonna welcome us back with open arms. Ah. To the Empire. (CHUCKLES SOFTLY) You did what you had to do. I never saw your face. ANNOUNCER: (OVER SPEAKER) Security to main commons. (STORMTROOPERS SCREAMING) MAYFELD: This way! SHORETROOPER: We need support at the mess hall. - (OFFICER GRUNTS) - THE MANDALORIAN: Ready? Go! - (MAYFELD GRUNTS) - SHORETROOPER : Hold it right there! - (SHORETROOPER GRUNTS) - South wall, halfway up. Got 'em. (GRUNTS AND SCREAMS) (STORMTROOPERS GRUNTING) We're on. Start your run. BOBA FETT: On my way. (MAYFELD GRUNTING) (GRUNTS) (GUNNERS GRUNTING) Three shooters, top deck. Got 'em. (SCREAMING) (BOTH GRUNTING) - THE MANDALORIAN: Let's move. - MAYFELD: The hell you think I'm doin'? - (MAYFELD GRUNTING) - (STORMTROOPER SCREAMS) MAYFELD: Go! Go! Go! Go! (STORMTROOPERS GRUNTING) (STORMTROOPERS SCREAMING) (THE MANDALORIAN GRUNTS) (MAYFELD SCREAMS AND GRUNTS) Hand me that cycler rifle. (GUN FIRES) Nice shot. Huh. We all need to sleep at night. (RADAR BEEPING) BOBA FETT: We got company. Hang on. (THE MANDALORIAN GRUNTING) Well, looks like it's back to the scrap heap. THE MANDALORIAN: Thank you for helping. MAYFELD: Yeah. Uh, good luck gettin' your kid back. All right, Officer, take me back. That was some nice shootin' back there. Oh, you saw that? Yeah, that, uh, that wasn't part of the plan. I was just gettin' some stuff off my chest. You know, it's too bad Mayfeld didn't make it out alive back there. THE MANDALORIAN: Yeah, too bad. What are you talkin' about? Looked to me like prisoner number three-four-six-six-seven died in the refinery explosion on Morak. Does that mean I can go? Huh? 'Cause I will. All right. Okay. (CHUCKLES) You get the coordinates on Moff Gideon? We did. What's our next move? Sir... You should see this. THE MANDALORIAN: Moff Gideon. You have something I want. You may think you have some idea what you are in possession of, but you do not. Soon, he will be back with me. He means more to me than you will ever know.


Chapter 16: The Rescue
THE MANDALORIAN: You have something I want. BO-KATAN: I can lead you to one of their kind. But first, we need your help on our mission. The Darksaber. Does he have it? - (GRUNTS) - (CRACKLING) DR. PERSHING: We have exhausted our initial supply of blood. I highly doubt we'll find a donor with a higher M-count, though. AHSOKA TANO: Go to the planet Tython. You will find the ancient ruins of a temple that has a strong connection to the Force. Place Grogu on the seeing stone at the top of the mountain. If he reaches out through the Force, there's a chance a Jedi may sense his presence and come searching for him. Then again, there aren't many Jedi left. (WHIMPERS) THE MANDALORIAN: You may think you have some idea of what you are in possession of, but you do not. It means more to me than you will ever know. What's going on? Who are they? I suggest you shut your mouth, this isn't your laboratory. (BEEPS) They hit us with an ion cannon. Avionics are down. Comms are down! BOBA FETT: Lower your shields, disengage all transponders, prepare for boarding. They're pirates. Shouldn't we fight? I don't have a death wish, do you? (SHIP APPROACHING) (LOUD THUD) Before you make a mistake, this is Dr. Pershing. We've met. Is the kid alive? Yes. He's on the cruiser. (GASPS) Stay back, Dropper. Easy, pal. Okay? I'm not with him. We can work something out. (GROANS) Drop your weapon. No. No, you listen to me. This is a top-tier target of the New Republic. This is a clone engineer. And if they find out that he's dead because of you, you're gonna wish you never left Alderaan. I saw the tear. You wanna know what else I saw? I saw your planet destroyed. I was on the Death Star. Which one? (PILOT LAUGHS MOCKINGLY) You think you're funny? Do you know how many millions were killed on those bases? Drop your blaster. As the galaxy cheered? Last chance. Destroying your planet was a small price to pay to rid the galaxy of terrorism. - (DR. PERSHING SCREAMING) - (THUDS) (INDISTINCT CHATTERING) THE MANDALORIAN: I need your help. Not all Mandalorians are bounty hunters. Some of us serve a higher purpose. They took the Child. Who? Moff Gideon. You'll never find him. BOBA FETT: We don't need these two. Let's get outta here. You are not a Mandalorian. BOBA FETT: Never said I was. I didn't know sidekicks were allowed to talk. (BOBA FETT CHUCKLES) Well, if that isn't the Quacta calling the Stifling slimy. Easy there, little one. You'll be talking through the window of a bacta tank. All right, easy. Save it for the Imps. We have his coordinates. You can bring me to Moff Gideon? The Moff has a light cruiser. It could be helpful in your effort to regain Mandalore. BOBA FETT: You gotta be kidding me. Mandalore? The Empire turned that planet to glass. You are a disgrace to your armor. BOBA FETT: This armor belonged to my father. Don't you mean your donor? Careful, princess. You are a clone. I've heard your voice thousands of times. Mine might be the last one you hear. (BOTH GRUNTING) (STRAINING) Enough! Both of you! If we had shown half that spine to the Empire we would've never lost our planet. We will help you. In exchange, we will keep that ship to retake Mandalore. If you should manage to finish your quest, I would have you reconsider joining our efforts. Mandalorians have been in exile from our home world for far too long. - Fair enough. - One more thing. Gideon has a weapon that once belonged to me. It is an ancient weapon that can cut through anything. Almost anything. It cannot cut through pure beskar. I will kill the Moff and retake what is rightfully mine. With the Darksaber restored to me, Mandalore will finally be within reach. Help me rescue the Child and you can have whatever you want. He is my only priority. This is Moff Gideon's Imperial light cruiser. In the old days, it would carry a crew of several hundred. Now it operates with a tiny fraction of that. - Your assessment is misleading. - CARA: Oh, great. An objective opinion. This isn't subterfuge. I assure you. Let him speak. There's a garrison of dark troopers on board. They abducted the Child. How many troopers do they have armed in those suits? These are third-generation design. They are no longer suits. The human inside was the final weakness to be solved. They're droids. Where are they bivouacked? DR. PERSHING: They're held in cold storage in this cargo bay. They draw too much power to be kept at ready. FENNEC SHAND: How long to power up? A few minutes, perhaps. THE MANDALORIAN: Where is the Child being held? This is the brig. He's being held here under armed guard. Very well. We split into two parties. THE MANDALORIAN: I go alone. Fine. Phase one, Lambda shuttle issues a distress call. Two, we emergency land at the mouth of the fighter launch tube, cutting off any potential interceptors. Koska, Fennec, Dune and myself disembark with maximum initiative. Once we've neutralized the launch bay, we make our way through these tandem decks in a penetration maneuver. - THE MANDALORIAN: And me? - We'll be misdirection. Once we draw a crowd, you slip through the shadows, get the kid. Those dark troopers are gonna be a real skank in the scud pie. Their bay is on the way to the brig. Can he make it there before they deploy? It's possible. Here. Take his code cylinder and seal off their holding bay. Anyone else, we can handle. We'll meet at the bridge. BO-KATAN: Moff Gideon is mine. Got it? He's ex-ISB. He's got a lot of information. I need him alive. I don't care what happens to him as long as he surrenders to me. Prepare to exit jump space. BO-KATAN: Copy that. Get the hell out of there as soon as they clear us to dock. And your shots have to look convincing. Power up those shields, princess. I'll put on a good show. Watch out for those deck cannons. Don't worry about me. Just be careful in there. Exiting hyperspace in three, two, one... (ALARM BEEPING) BO-KATAN: This is Lambda shuttle, Two-Seven-Four-Three. Requesting emergency docking. Repeat, requesting emergency docking. We are under attack. Copy, Lambda shuttle. Request received. Launch TIE fighters. Stay clear of launch tube. Deploying fighter squadron. Request denied! Please clear launch tube until fighters deploy! BO-KATAN: Negative! Negative! We are under attack! Clear launch tube immediately. OPERATOR: (ON PA) We have incoming at two-eight-four-six. Hangar control, stand down! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! (ALARM BEEPING) Hang on! STORMTROOPER : Look out. STORMTROOPER : Clear the launch tube! STORMTROOPER : What are you doing? - Get that thing out of here! - (BOTH GROAN) STORMTROOPER : Move in! Blast 'em! (STORMTROOPERS GROANING) Fire! STORMTROOPER : Wait, stop! Activate the dark troopers. KOSKA REEVES: All clear. BO-KATAN: A little too clear. Keep your eyes open. (BOTH GROANING) (SCREAMING) STORMTROOPER : Freeze! Drop your weapons! Sector four, hold your position. STORMTROOPER : We're heading to the bridge now. (GAS HISSING) (DARK TROOPERS POWERING UP) Cover me. BO-KATAN: We got your back. - (STORMTROOPERS GROANING) - (FENNEC SHAND GRUNTS) STORMTROOPER: There they are! (DROID SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE) (GUN BUZZES) My gun's jammed! I got you. (STORMTROOPERS GROANING) Thanks. (ALARM BLARING) No. No! (GROANS) (SCREAMING) (CHOKING) (GROANING) - (GAS HISSING) - (YELPS) (GROANS) (DARK TROOPERS POUNDING ON DOOR) (THE MANDALORIAN YELPS) (GRUNTING) (DARK TROOPER SCREAMS) (STRUGGLING) Dank farrik! Son of a mudscuffer! BO-KATAN: Are you sure you don't need any help? - (CARA GRUNTS) - (GUN POWERS UP) (SIGHS) I think that did it. Excuse me. STORMTROOPER: Hostiles! Stop! (STORMTROOPERS GROANING) KOSKA REEVES: Weapons system disarmed. Where's Gideon? (THE MANDALORIAN GRUNTING) (CHOKING) (NECK SNAPS) (COOING) Drop the blaster. Slowly. Now kick it over to me. Very nice. Give me the kid. The kid is just fine where he is. Mesmerizing, isn't it? Used to belong to Bo-Katan. Yes. I know you've been traveling with Bo-Katan. A friendly piece of advice, assume that I know everything. Like the fact that your wrist launcher has fired its one and only salvo. Where is this going? This is where it's going. I'm guessing that Bo-Katan and her boarding party have arrived at the bridge, seeking me or, more accurately, this. But I'm not there. And I imagine that they've killed everyone on the bridge, being the murderous savages that they are. And now, they're beginning to panic. You see, she wants this. Do you know why? Because it brings power. Whoever wields this sword... has the right to lay claim to the Mandalorian throne. You keep it. I just want the kid. Very well. I've already got what I want from him. His blood. All I wanted was to study his blood. This Child is extremely gifted... and has been blessed with rare properties that have the potential to bring order back to the galaxy. I see your bond with him. Take him, but you will leave my ship immediately and we will go our separate ways. (BOTH GRUNTING) You're sparing my life? Well, this should be interesting. (DOOR CLOSES) What happened? CARA: He brought him in alive, that's what happened. And now the New Republic's gonna have to double the payment. That's not what she's talking about. Why don't you kill him now and take it? It's yours now. THE MANDALORIAN: What is? The Darksaber. It belongs to you. THE MANDALORIAN: Now... it belongs to her. She can't take it. It must be won in battle. In order for her to wield the Darksaber again, she would need to defeat you in combat. I yield. It's yours. Oh, no. (CHUCKLING) It doesn't work that way. The Darksaber doesn't have power. The story does. Without that blade, she's a pretender to the throne. He's right. THE MANDALORIAN: Come on, just take it. (ALARM BEEPING) Well, perhaps she'll get another crack at it. FENNEC SHAND: The ray shields have been breached. We're being boarded. How many life forms? None. You're about to face off with the dark troopers. You had your hands full with one. Let's see how you do against a platoon. BO-KATAN: They're headed this way. Don't worry, kid. I'm gonna get you out of here. Seal the blast doors! They're here. (POUNDING ON DOOR) You have an impressive fire team protecting you. But I think we all know, after a valiant stand, everyone in this room will be dead... but me... and the Child. (ALARM BEEPING) An X-wing. One X-wing? Great. We're saved. Incoming craft, identify yourself. (COOING) Why did they stop? (LASERS FIRING) BO-KATAN: A Jedi? - (LASERS FIRING) - (LIGHTSABER HUMMING) (BO-KATAN GROANING) (THUDS) Drop it! (LIGHTSABER WHOOSHING) (ELEVATOR BEEPING) (ELEVATOR DINGS) (WHINES) THE MANDALORIAN: Open the doors. I said, open the doors. Are you crazy? THE MANDALORIAN: Are you a Jedi? I am. Come, little one. (COOING) He doesn't want to go with you. He wants your permission. He is strong with the Force, but talent without training is nothing. I will give my life to protect the Child... but he will not be safe until he masters his abilities. THE MANDALORIAN: Hey, go on. That's who you belong with. He's one of your kind. I'll see you again. I promise. (COOING) All right, pal. It's time to go. (WHINES) Don't be afraid. (GROGU COOING) (R -D BEEPING) (R -D BEEPING) (GROGU CONTINUES COOING) (COOS) (BEEPING) May the Force be with you. (INDISTINCT CHATTERING) (SPEAKING HUTTESE) - (GUNFIRE) - (INDISTINCT SHOUTING) (SCREAMS) (SPEAKING HUTTESE) (PANICKED CHATTERING) (GUARDS GROAN) (WHIMPERING) (BIB FORTUNA LAUGHING AND SPEAKING HUTTESE) (BIB FORTUNA LAUGHING) (GROANS) (BODY THUDS)



